<<<PAGE 1>>>

<<<PAGE 2>>>

<<<PAGE 3>>>

<<<PAGE 4>>>
FOREWORD

<<<PAGE 5>>>
1Malaysia “People First, Performance Now”
<<<PAGE 6>>>

<<<PAGE 7>>>

<<<PAGE 8>>>

<<<PAGE 9>>>

<<<PAGE 10>>>
8
 IntroductionCHAPTER 1
<<<PAGE 11>>>
9
Malaysian Indian Blueprint 2017
<<<PAGE 12>>>
6
7
10
IntroductionCHAPTER 110
<<<PAGE 13>>>
11
Malaysian Indian Blueprint 2017
<<<PAGE 14>>>
12
IntroductionCHAPTER 1
<<<PAGE 15>>>
13
Malaysian Indian Blueprint 201713
<<<PAGE 16>>>
MALAYSIA’S INCOME SEGMENTS, AT A GLANCE
Source: Household Income Survey 2014
INCOME SEGMENTS
BY ETHNICITY
Malaysia
T20
Malaysia
M40
Malaysia
B40
8.8%
Indian
37.1%
Chinese
Mean Monthly Income
of Main Ethnic Groups
in T20
Mean Monthly Income
of Main Ethnic Groups
in M40
Mean Monthly Income
of Main Ethnic Groups
in B40
53.8%
Bumiputera
64.2%
Bumiputera
73.6%
Bumiputera
9.1%
Indian
26.4%
Chinese
17.5%
Chinese
8.5%
Indian
12,630
17,981
14,604
5,190
7,049
5,646
2,367
3,127
2,672
B B BC C CI I I
14
IntroductionCHAPTER 1
<<<PAGE 17>>>
Approximately 57 ,624 households or 10% of all Malaysian Indian households earn below RM2,000 a month, 71, 148 
households or 12% of all Malaysian Indian households earn between RM2,000 and RM3,000 a month and 112,896 
households or 19% of all Malaysian Indian households earn between RM3,000 and RM4,000 a month.
31 An estimated 
3,528 households or 0.6% of all Indian households are classified as being below the poverty line.32
Yet, it has been observed that “there is an absence of 
rigorous research studies on urban poverty in general and 
the Indian urban underclass in particular . The problems of 
the plantation workers in particular have received greater 
attention from academics and researchers than the present 
urban underclass. ”
34 In other words, there is an urgent 
need to look at the particular problems of the Indian urban 
poor community and to develop policies or programs that 
address their specific challenges.
2010 Population Distribution and Basic Demographic Census,
Department of Statistics, Malaysia. 
Marimuthu, op. cit.
Ibid.
Ibid.
33
34
31
32
Today, a considerable 89% of the Malaysian 
Indian population resides in urban areas 
while only 11% remain in rural areas.
33 The 
urban concentration of the Malaysian Indian 
population indicates that the low-income and 
poverty problem of the community is largely an 
urban problem. 
15
Malaysian Indian Blueprint 2017
<<<PAGE 18>>>
INDIAN B40 AT A GLANCE
INDIAN HOUSEHOLDS
BY INCOME SEGMENT
IB40
INCOME RANGE
MAIN JOB
CATEGORIES
PLANT & MACHINE
OPERATORS
PRODUCTION
ASSEMBLERS
Number of
B40 Households
Source: Household Income Survey 2014 (Figures in bar chart are extracted from Household Income Survey 2012)
227,600
SERVICES &
SALES WORKERS
As can be expected, low levels of education and training together with the resulting lack of high-value skillsets are the 
primary factors underlying low incomes. Among Malaysian Indians who are employed, 50% hold low-income jobs such 
as service and sales workers (17 .4%), plant/machine operators and production assemblers (22.5%) and elementary staff 
(10.2%) in the manufacturing, transportation, wholesale and retail trade sectors.
35 These workers face the double threat of 
rivalry and redundancy – many have to compete with foreign workers for jobs, while others are in ‘sunset’ occupations where 
workers will be replaced by more knowledge-intensive systems, processes and technologies in the coming years.
36
On the other side of the coin, unemployment in the Malaysian Indian community is comparatively high. The average 
unemployment rate for Indian males stands at 4.0% compared to 2.9% for Malaysian males overall. The average 
unemployment rate for Indian females stands at 5.2% compared to 3.2% for Malaysian females overall.
37
Lin, Mui Kiang (2016) “Millennium Development Goals & The Indian Community: 
Focus On The Bottom 40 Percent” in Denison, J & Nathan, KS (Eds.) 
Contemporary Malaysian Indians, Bangi: Institute of Ethnic Studies UKM, pp. 
239-262.
Labour Force Survey Report, 2014
Professor Mahendhiran Nair (2014)“Equitable & Inclusive Economic Development: 
The Current State of Socioeconomic Development of Malaysian Indians”
3735
36
16
IntroductionCHAPTER 1
<<<PAGE 19>>>
Unemployment amongst Malaysian Indian youth is particularly worrying. Among unemployed Malaysian youths, Indians 
make up 10% of the 15-19 age group, and 9% of the 20-24 age group. 39 The relatively high representation of Malaysian 
Indians amongst these statistics not only signals high school dropout rates but also suggests a worrying scenario of gang 
involvement, crime and long-term non-integration into Malaysian mainstream society.
Apart from employment, low incomes are also a reflection of the low level of entrepreneurship amongst the Malaysian 
Indian community. Of all employed persons, it is estimated 14.3% Indians are entrepreneurs compared to 22.4% of 
Bumiputera and 23.2% of Chinese.
39 Most enterprises are very small: through the period 2005-2013 there were 37 ,896 
Malaysian Indian companies deemed as ‘active’ by the Registrar of Companies, 91% of which were microbusinesses 40. 
On the scale of large listed companies, Malaysian Indian ownership of shares has hovered around 1.5%-1.6% over the past 
decade, lagging behind other ethnic groups by a big margin. Ownership in these limited companies, is moreover , highly 
concentrated amongst a few individuals in the Malaysian Indian business elite.
41
T o effect income and wealth growth, 
Malaysian Indian employment and 
entrepreneurship needs to be uplifted 
particularly amongst the IB40. Several 
programs have been and are being 
undertaken by the Government to address 
this need amongst the B40; the Blueprint 
aims to ensure that the Malaysian Indian 
community is proportionately represented 
in such initiatives.
In terms of wealth and asset ownership, in 2010, only 56% 
of Malaysian Indian households owned their places of 
residence.
42 This figure is lower than the home ownership rate 
of 62% among the Bumiputera and 61% among the Chinese. 
For the B40 group, in 2007, the Chinese B40 had the highest 
rate of home-ownership at 12%, compared to the Bumiputera 
at 7% and the Indians at only 3%.
43
Malaysian Indian Economic Development Report For RMK-11 by SEED Steering 
Committee. 
2010 Characteristics of Households Survey, Department of Statistics, Malaysia
Muhammed Abdul Khalid, PhD, UKM, (2011) “NEP to NEM: Who Cares? Wealth 
Distribution in Malaysia”
Employment Rates By Ethnicity And Age Group 2015 by Penyiasatan T enaga Buruh, 
Jabatan Perangkaan Malaysia
Labour Force Survey Report, 2014
Suruhanjaya Syarikat Malaysia (SSM), 2009 - 2013
38
39
40
41
42
43
17
Malaysian Indian Blueprint 2017
<<<PAGE 20>>>
Educational
Challenges
Good education and training that leads to valued competencies, is the bedrock of social mobility. T oday, Malaysia has arguably 
reached the limits of social mobility dividends via improving access to education - excepting children with documentation 
issues, primary school enrolment is nearly universal across the board. As outlined in the Malaysia Education Blueprint 2013-
2025, the focus now relates to improving the quality of education and, accordingly, educational attainment.
For the Malaysian Indian community in general and Indian children in particular , the challenge of low educational attainment 
is especially pertinent. Young adult Malaysian Indians provide a stark illustration: 9% of Indians in the 20-24 age group have 
low educational attainment (i.e. only up to lower secondary), compared to 6% of Malays and 5% of Chinese. Similarly, for 
the slightly older cohort aged 25-29, 13% of Indians in this age bracket have low educational attainment (i.e. only up to 
lower secondary), compared with 9% of Malays and 7% of Chinese.
44
The challenge begins at the earliest stages of development. Several studies have confirmed the vital role of early education 
in setting up a child for educational success and beyond.
45
However , only an estimated 55% of Malaysian Indian children aged 5 to 6 years old attend preschool, 46 a significant gap 
against the target of universal preschool enrolment by 2020. 47 For IB40 children in particular , the lack of early education 
means that they are doubly disadvantaged when they enter Sekolah Kebangsaan due to language issues.48
For a slight majority of Malaysian Indian 
children however, the problem of language 
disadvantages may be prolonged for a further 
few years: in 2011, 56% of Indian children 
were enrolled in Tamil-based primary schools 
(“SJKT”) while 38% were enrolled in Sekolah 
Rendah Kebangsaan (“SRKs”) and 6% in 
Mandarin-based primary schools (“SJKC”).
49
Action Plan for The Future of Tamil Schools Unit (PTST) 2014 
Malaysian Education Blueprint 2013-2025
Interviews with Prof. Datuk Dr . NS Rajendran (PTST & SEDIC).
Malaysian Education Blueprint 2013-2025
Education and Social Characteristics of The Population (2010) Department of 
Statistics, Malaysia 
Bennett, J (2008) Early Childhood Services in the OECD Countries: Review of the 
literature and current policy in the arly childhood field: UNICEF Innocenti Research 
Centre and Duncan, JG, Magnuson, K (2013) Investing in Preschool Programs: 
Journal of Economic Perspective Vol.27 No.2 pp. 109-132 (24)
44
45
46
47 
48
49
18
IntroductionCHAPTER 1
<<<PAGE 21>>>
Improvements notwithstanding, SJKT students will generally still face language and transition issues when they enter 
national secondary school where Bahasa Malaysia is both the medium of instruction as well as the everyday language used 
by the vast majority of the school population. SJKT students who fail the Bahasa Malaysia subject in the UPSR examination 
are channeled to ‘remove class’ or ‘kelas peralihan’ in their first year of secondary school. However , these classes have been 
observed to cause more negative effects than positive effects.
52
Correspondingly, Malaysian Indian students also make up a disproportionately high percentage of dropouts. It is estimated 
that Indian pupils make up 13%, or around 1,000 children, of the total number of dropouts from primary school.
54 For 
secondary school, the rate is somewhat more proportionate at 8% i.e. around 4,300 students,55 though serious efforts must 
still be made to reduce this number particularly to avoid the serious possibility of lifetime involvement in gangs and crime.
The poor state of SJKTs has been a
longstanding issue, spurring the Government 
to commit over RM800 million between 
2009 – 2016 to enhance the state of SJKT  
infrastructure and facilities.
50 In 2012, the 
Government also established a special unit 
on Tamil schools within the Prime Minister’s 
Department to ensure tangible outcomes 
from this financial commitment, particularly 
amongst  Government-aided schools.
51 T oday 
the state of many SJKTs has greatly improved 
- contributing to its increased popularity 
amongst the Malaysian Indian community 
- though several schools are still in need of 
attention. 
With respect to overall educational 
attainment, the Blueprint finds that 
Malaysian Indian students perform lower 
than the national average. In 2015, only 
54% of Indian students passed all subjects 
in the UPSR examinations compared to 
the national rate of 66%. Only 44% of 
Indian students passed all subjects in 
the SPM examinations compared to 55% 
nationally.
53 There is a high likelihood 
that the low pass rates are predominantly 
amongst IB40 children and youth.
Ministry of Education
Enrolment Statistics of Indian children in MOE-Registered Schools - 2014, Ministry 
of Education Malaysia.
Ibid. 
Ministry of Education. This does not include enhanced operational expenditure for 
teaching staff salaries
Government-aided schools are schools set up and run by non-governmental 
stakeholders but are partially supported with Government funds.  Government 
schools are set up and run by the MOE
Nagappan, R; Maniam, M; Periasamy, S; Rao, R; Devarajoo, K & Velu, J (2012) 
Exploring Remove Classes in Malaysia; A Study to Evaluate Their Effectiveness 
Kuala Lumpur: EWRF .
50
51
52
53
54
55
19
Malaysian Indian Blueprint 2017
<<<PAGE 22>>>
Given this pipeline, it is no surprise that Malaysian Indians are vastly under-represented in tertiary education enrolment. 
Indians make up only 4.5% of the total number of applicants to public institutions of tertiary education; Bumiputera 
comprise 74% while Chinese comprise 13% of applicants.
56 Furthermore, Indian graduates are less likely to be hired 
compared to Malay and Chinese graduates due to objective and perceived deficiencies in command of language, technical 
skills, computer skills and soft skills.
57
The level of Malaysian Indian educational attainment has improved over successive cohorts but the gap existing today, 
relative to other ethnic groups, is still significant. If educational attainment is not emphasized amongst IB40, there would 
be a widening income gap across the Indian community, whereby the middle and higher income group would progress 
while the IB40 would stagnate. Reducing the educational attainment gap, especially by bringing up IB40 educational 
performance, is a key target of this Blueprint.
 Ismail, Noor Azina (2011) “Graduates’ Characteristics and Unemployment: A 
Study Among Malaysian Graduates”, International Journal of Business and Social 
Science, Vol. 2 No. 16, p. 94.
Public tertiary institutions, also referred to as Public Institutions of Higher 
Education (IPTA).
5756
20
IntroductionCHAPTER 1
<<<PAGE 23>>>
The Malaysian Indian Community faces a plethora of social challenges caused by three major intertwining factors. The first 
factor is the historical legacy of Indian migration into pre-Independence Malaya as estate workers. As described earlier , 
many of the communities in the estates were fairly self-contained and isolated from outside society. This segregation often 
resulted in a lack of citizenship documentation that has continued over generations, rendering the household ‘stateless’. 
While a majority of Indian migrants had successfully registered as Malaysians post-Independence, there are still pockets 
that remain undocumented due to ignorance, illiteracy and procedural challenges.
The implications are particularly serious for children and youth as 
a ‘stateless’ individual cannot formally access Government support 
systems such as welfare, education and healthcare services. It is 
also extremely challenging for a stateless person to obtain formal 
employment or a business license, thus perpetuating the vicious 
cycle of poverty. 
Another challenge directly stemming from historical legacy 
is the resettlement of displaced and/or aging estate workers. 
As mentioned above, the sale and conversion of estates into 
housing or industrial developments has, in past decades, 
forced  hundreds of thousands of the retrenched estate 
workers to move into urban squatter areas or temporary 
longhouses.
59 Though the figure has dropped due to an 
influx of foreign workers, today there are still an estimated 
36% of estate workers, i.e. around 16,000 households, who 
are Indian.
60 With redevelopment being a distinct possibility, 
these households are at risk of displacement from their 
homes in the medium to long term, unless resettlement 
packages are planned, negotiated and provided.
61 Aging 
estate workers also face the risk of displacement, even if the 
estate continues to be a going concern.
Currently, there are an estimated 
25,000 Indians that are either stateless 
or have documentation issues.
58
Due to public attention, there has been increased effort in recent years by 
plantation companies and state governments to resettle estate workers in new 
low-cost housing; it is usually a protracted negotiation process with multiple 
stakeholders and success is very much on a case-by-case basis
Number of Estate Workers By Ethnicity (2015), Jabatan T enaga Kerja
There are also Indians still living in squatter areas and temporary longhouses that 
have not been resettled in decades. The numbers are unknown but field workers 
perceive it to be dwindling due to the Government’s ‘zero squatter’ policy
NGO Development of Human Resources for Rural Areas’ (DHRRA) mapping and 
identification exercise. A stateless individual has no citizenship documentation; 
an individual with documentation issues have temporary identification documents 
(e.g. red Identity Card) but face problems in proving Malaysian birth and acquiring 
permanent identification documents. However , a nationwide census on the exact 
number of undocumented Indians must be carried out by the implementation 
entity. 
59
60
61
58
Social
Challenges
21
Malaysian Indian Blueprint 2017
<<<PAGE 24>>>
The social challenge of dysfunctional families creates another problem salient to the Malaysian Indian community, namely 
at-risk youth and crime. Weak familial support creates instability in children’s lives and is a key cause of adverse outcomes 
in their young lives. It is estimated that about 70% of gang members in the country are Indians.
64 Although some leave 
behind gang activities after their schooling years, field experts suggest that a number of them, particularly those from 
underprivileged and broken families, stay on in gangs and progress to more serious crimes.
65 According to PDRM 2014 
statistics, of all violent crime arrests, Malaysian Indians comprise 31% (against national population of 7%) compared to 
Malay and Chinese counterparts at 51% and 11% respectively.
66
The third factor is being a minority in a Malay Muslim-majority country. Malaysia’s multi-ethnic society, while largely 
harmonious, presents certain challenges to its minority communities.  One challenge is related to religious and cultural 
observance. The use of public halls for Hindu or other religion’s ceremonies is often opposed or barred, creating feelings 
of marginalisation.
The establishment of temples and shrines, particularly unregistered ones, can produce conflict when the land is eventually 
claimed for occupation or development. Even demolition and relocation of large established temples can be fraught with 
tension or anger if not handled well.  The Malaysian Indian community has the challenge of ensuring its religious rights are 
preserved while working with the regulatory requirements and sensitivities of the majority group. At the same time, Indian 
religious institutions such as temples need to increase their contribution to their communities in areas such as education, 
values and welfare.
Finally, while there are points of pride in being of Indian ethnicity, some aspects of Indian representation in Malaysian public 
life - such as associations to crime, gangs, alcohol abuse, violence, low education and poverty – impart a negative slant to 
the community’s overall image. Aside from causing offence, stereotypes against Malaysian Indians can materially reduce 
their chances in life via discrimination in schools and in job recruitment. Stereotypes can also hold back Indians who believe 
and accept the negative narrative about themselves. 
The Blueprint seeks to address these issues by undertaking a range of targeted initiatives, which are outlined further in the 
relevant chapters ahead.
T enth Malaysia Plan Recommendations: Malaysian Indians & The New Economic 
Model, Institute of Ethnic Studies (KITA), University Kebangsaan Malaysia (UKM)
Laporan Statistik 2014, Department of Social Welfare Malaysia
Attributed to Bukit Aman’s CID director , as reported in “Indian gangs originated 
from Chinese triads” (2013, August 27) The Sun Daily. Accessed at: http://www.
thesundaily.my/news/808352
 Interview w PDRM
Crime involving murder , attempted murder , rape, incest, armed robbery or battery/
manslaughter . Note: Other ethnicities account for the remainder 7% of violent crime 
arrests.
62
63
64
65
66
The second factor is pressures of modern society, intensified 
by socioeconomic status, which produces challenges for the 
most basic social unit: the family. It has been estimated that 
over 100,000 Malaysian Indians are in distressed families 
i.e. families with issues of domestic violence, divorce and 
marriage breakdown, alcohol or drug abuse, criminal 
activities and suicide.
62 In 2014, Indian families accounted 
for 21% of the total number of reported domestic violence 
cases. In that same year , a total of 518 Indian children or 
12% of all reported cases were classified as children who 
are in need of care and protection.
63 These statistics indicate 
a prevalent problem of dysfunctional family dynamics and 
broken family bonds.
22
IntroductionCHAPTER 1
<<<PAGE 25>>>
The Values of the Blueprint
If left unchecked, the economic, educational and social challenges highlighted above will 
solidify the existence of an Indian sub-class that is continuously marginalised and excluded 
from the Malaysian mainstream. Not only is this a waste of human potential, it is a cost to the 
country’s economy and a threat to national inter-ethnic harmony.The Government has, since 2008, progressively undertaken measures to address some of these major challenges. A Cabinet 
Committee on Indian Participation in Government Programs and Projects (CCIC) was established as well as four special 
units under the Prime Minister’s Department to address specific areas. These units are: the Special Implementation Task 
Force (SITF) which has played a major role towards resolving a significant number of citizenship and documentation cases; 
the  Action Plan for the Future of Tamil Schools Unit (PTST) which is tasked to implement a comprehensive blueprint for the 
development of Tamil schools in Malaysia; the Special Secretariat for Empowerment of Indian Entrepreneurs (SEED) which 
provides support services to Indian entrepreneurs and businesses; and finally the Unit for Socio-Economic Development of 
the Indian Community (SEDIC) which funds wide-ranging socio-economic and cultural programs.
The Government however recognises that more can be done to improve the status of the Malaysian Indian community, 
particularly the IB40. T owards that end, the Malaysian Indian Community Blueprint represents a comprehensive and multi-
dimensional approach by the Government to address under representation and under performance of Malaysian Indians.
23
Malaysian Indian Blueprint 201723
<<<PAGE 26>>>
T o strive for
constant 
improvement in 
delivering a citizen-centric 
public service by developing a rich 
data-driven knowledge base of what 
works; executing innovative 
and effective initiatives; 
and scaling up best 
practices in 
delivery.
To
ensure that efforts 
taken to close the 
gap between the Malaysian 
Indian community and the national 
average is ‘mainstreamed’ into all 
relevant Government ministries and 
agencies, becoming part of their 
targets and mission in the 
long term; and
T o ensure
that efforts ‘plug into’ 
existing Government policies, 
programs and initiatives as much 
as possible and to complement 
with new undertakings where 
warranted or beneficial;
T o address both 
immediate deprivation as 
well as intergenerational
social mobility;
This Blueprint is guided by
the following principles: 
24
IntroductionCHAPTER 124
<<<PAGE 27>>>
The Structure of the Blueprint
This Blueprint seeks to 
engender the following 
outcomes for the Malaysian 
Indian community:
Improved income and wealth levels, in both absolute and relative 
terms, particularly amongst the IB40
Improved educational attainment, with no discernible inter-ethnic gaps
An increased sense of inclusion into Malaysia’s social fabric amongst 
the Malaysian Indian community 
•
•
•
T o achieve the above, the Blueprint frames its approach,
thinking and initiatives along four key pillars:
In order to engage 
meaningfully in the 
economy and in society, 
basic needs must first 
be fulfilled. This pillar 
comprises the building 
blocks of modern life, 
which includes ensuring 
access to welfare assistance 
for the most vulnerable; 
ensuring provision of 
shelter and housing 
particularly for those at 
risk of displacement such 
as aging estate workers; 
and helping families to 
maintain healthy and 
stable home environments.
‘Addressing Foundations’ 
is covered in Chapter 2 of 
this Blueprint.
Income upliftment 
and wealth-building 
interventions help the 
IB40 to become resilient to 
changes in the Malaysian 
economy and to be relevant 
in a more knowledge-
intensive and high-income 
economy. This pillar covers 
reskilling, job placement 
and entrepreneurship as 
a means to break out of 
the low-skilled and low-
income cycle.
‘Improving Livelihoods 
and Wealth’ is detailed in 
Chapter 4 of this Blueprint.
Education and training 
remains to be the most 
effective means by which 
to break out of poverty 
and to create a better life. 
This pillar covers the key 
issues of Malaysian Indian 
educational attainment 
from primary to tertiary 
levels. This pillar also 
includes the challenge of 
helping and rehabilitating 
at-risk youth.
‘Realising Each Child’s 
Potential’ is the topic of 
Chapter 3 of this Blueprint.
Social issues faced by 
the Malaysian Indian 
community can fuel a 
sense of marginalisation 
and lack of belonging. 
Such challenges as lack of 
citizenship documentation, 
religious observance and 
the community’s image in 
Malaysian public needs to 
be tackled if the Malaysian 
Indian community is to 
feel truly included and 
integrated.
This pillar encompasses 
the myriad issues related 
to the sense of social 
inclusion and is covered in 
Chapter 5 of this Blueprint.
Addressing
Foundations
Realising Each 
Child’s Potential
Improving 
Livelihoods and 
Wealth
Increasing
Social Inclusion
A B C D
25
Malaysian Indian Blueprint 201725
<<<PAGE 28>>>
Malaysian Indian Blueprint:
Framework
4
Welfare for 
the most 
vulnerable
Low-cost 
housing 
allocations met
T roubled 
families 
supported
Reskilling/
upgrading 
programs
Job-matching
Entrepreneurship
Improve 
educational 
and skills 
attainment at 
all ages
Address at-risk 
youth issue
Documentation
Out of crime
Religious 
observance
Community 
image
Key
Pillars
A
B
C
D
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
26
IntroductionCHAPTER 1
<<<PAGE 29>>>
The implementation of the Blueprint needs to be undertaken as systematically and comprehensively as its development. 
Each pillar is accompanied by a set of targets to be achieved during the 10-year Blueprint period spanning 2017 to 2026. 
Further , the components involved in implementation are set out in Chapter 6 of this Blueprint.
The Malaysian Indian Blueprint aims to inform and buttress the Government’s efforts by gathering an updated and 
comprehensive picture of the challenges faced today, identifying ‘second generation’ policies or programs that will address 
these challenges and putting forward a set of targets by which success can be tracked.
It is hoped that this Blueprint will provide a robust roadmap for the Government’s commitment to close the socioeconomic 
gap amongst the Malaysian Indian community, particularly the IB40, and to ensure greater inclusion of Malaysian Indians in 
the nation’s journey towards becoming an advanced nation. 
27
Malaysian Indian Blueprint 2017
<<<PAGE 30>>>

<<<PAGE 31>>>
CHAPTER Addressing
Foundations2
<<<PAGE 32>>>
Meeting Basic Needs of Modern Life
Before individuals are able to engage in society and the economy meaningfully, the 
foundations of modern life must be in place and basic needs must be fulfilled. Thus, the first 
priority of the Malaysian Indian Blueprint (“MIB”) is ‘Addressing Foundations’ and by doing 
so, to assist the most vulnerable segments of the IB40. 
The first plank of ‘Addressing Foundations’ is to ensure that 
all Malaysian Indian households defined as poor , i.e. earning 
at or below the national poverty line, are receiving sufficient 
assistance to cover their basic needs.
67 It is heartening to 
note that Malaysia has nearly eradicated hardcore poverty.68 
Our duty now is to ensure that the needs of the next most 
vulnerable segment are met, providing a foundation from 
which they can work towards long-term socioeconomic 
mobility. Our duty is also to equip this group with the 
necessary tools to protect them from economic shocks i.e. 
building a safety net.
The second plank of ‘Addressing Foundations’ is to address 
the issue of shelter and housing for the most vulnerable 
groups within the IB40. Apart from the challenge of providing 
good low-cost housing for the poor (which affects all ethnic 
groups), a housing issue specific to the IB40 is related to the 
resettlement of estate workers. There are still an estimated 
16,000 Indians working in estates today 
69. For many, the 
estate is the only socioeconomic environment they have 
ever known. As estates make way for property development, 
these workers are at risk of becoming physically and socially 
displaced. Unless they are appropriately resettled, which 
includes equipping them in managing their new social and 
economic environment, the profile of persistent poverty 
typified by the majority of IB40 households in Malaysia will 
continue.
The third plank of ‘Addressing Foundations’ is to help IB40 households with damaging dysfunctions overcome or manage 
harmful behaviours and create a more stable family environment especially families with children. Harmful behaviours can 
range from minor neglect to the more serious such as alcoholism and abuse. Although not conventionally viewed as a basic 
need, family stability or the lack thereof is found to be at the core of several significant issues covered in this Blueprint such 
as educational attainment, at-risk youth and crime.
70 Therefore, the MIB views family stability as a foundational requirement 
in enabling IB40 households to improve their current and inter-generational socioeconomic status.
Hardcore poverty is defined as a chronic lack of ability to support the most basic 
needs of survival. Historically, this is set at half of the poverty line i.e. RM465. 
Source: 11th Malaysia Plan
Number of Estate Workers By Ethnicity (2015), Jabatan T enaga Kerja
Interviews with Government officers, NGOs and other stakeholders
The Malaysian Government defines poverty as a lack of monetary ability to support 
basic needs consisting of food and non-food components, such as healthcare, 
education, house rental, clothing, transportation and recreation. The poverty line is 
set based on a minimum ‘basket’ of goods comprising these components. Source: 
‘Urban Poverty and Inequality in Malaysia: Empowerment of Malaysian Indians 
through the Neighbourhood-Based Social Service Programme’ by Chamhuri Siwar 
in the book ‘Contemporary Malaysian Indians’
68
69
70
67
30
Addressing FoundationsCHAPTER 230
<<<PAGE 33>>>
In line with the 11th Malaysia Plan target of doubling the mean and 
median monthly income of B40 households by 2020
Baseline to be set in 2017 based on survey of savings levels of poor 
Malaysian Indian households registered in e-Kasih database
 Cases occurring before 2017
Based on baseline of end 2016
71
72
73
74
Addressing 
Foundations: Targets
Complementing targets set in the 11th Malaysia Plan and by 
related ministries and agencies, the MIB sets out to achieve the 
following:
Ensure all IB40 households below the poverty line are 
registered in the eKasih database and receive necessary welfare 
assistance
Ensure the average monthly income of poor Malaysian Indian 
households is double the current national PLI (RM950)
71
Ensure at least 50% of registered poor households can 
demonstrate increased savings within 5 years of MIB 
implementation
72
Close the gap between Malaysian Indian households and the 
national average in the Family Well-Being Index
Ensure reported cases of abuse and domestic violence within 
Malaysian Indian households is on a downward trend
74
Ensure IB40 households are receiving a proportionate share of 
low-cost and affordable public sector housing in urban areas
Ensure past resettlement cases of Indian estate workers are 
resolved within 5 years of MIB implementation
73
Ensure future resettlement cases of Indian estate workers are 
anticipated and fairly resolved
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
A. Poverty Alleviation
C. Family stability
B. Housing
31
Malaysian Indian Blueprint 201731
<<<PAGE 34>>>
A. Poverty Alleviation
Poverty is defined as the lack of monetary ability to meet basic human needs such as food, 
clothing, shelter and other basic necessities. The progressive increase in GDP and incomes 
since Independence has been accompanied with great reductions in the incidence of absolute 
poverty – nearly 100% of Malaysian households are able to meet the most basic of human 
needs.
75
However , the effects of inflation and the demands 
of urban life have expanded the definition of 
what it means to be poor today. In the context 
of modern life, basic necessities extend to 
education, healthcare, transportation 
and communications.
76 Ensuring that 
Malaysian households are meeting 
these basic needs is the subject 
of this section.
Currently, Malaysia sets its Poverty 
Line Income (PLI) - the level of 
income necessary for an average-sized 
household to meet the above basic needs 
- at RM950 a month
77. The income threshold 
for the urban poor is slightly higher at RM960 
whereas the rural poor constitute those earning 
below RM910 a month. Households earning below the 
PLI are defined as poor households and are eligible for 
welfare assistance, which includes cash support, housing 
and others depending on nature and degree of need78. 
RM 960 (urban) and 
RM 910 (rural)
Hardcore poverty stands at 0. 1% of total households. Source: 11th Malaysia Plan
Reflected in the shift towards a Multi-dimensional Poverty Index (MPI) in the 11th 
Malaysia Plan
Average household size is 4.3 people. Source: Implementation Coordination Unit
The PLI for each household is different according to location, household size and 
consumption pattern, amongst other factors. A household may be earning above 
the national poverty line but still be considered as poor i.e. below their specific 
household PLI, which depends on the household’s traits.
75
76
77
78
32
Addressing FoundationsCHAPTER 2
<<<PAGE 35>>>
Household Income Survey 2014. Department of Statistics, Malaysia
Household Income Survey, 2012. Department of Statistics, Malaysia. The difference 
of around 19,000 households reflects differences in household size, location and 
other factors
The Bumiputera poverty problem on the other hand is split equally between urban 
and rural. Source: Household Income and Basic Amenities Survey 2014
79
80
81
A combination of low education, lack of skills, 
displacement from estates and marginalisation 
underlies the creation and persistence of 
Malaysian Indian poor households. T o ensure 
that poor households are meeting their basic 
needs, it is important to ensure that they 
are identified and earmarked for welfare 
assistance. Beyond meeting the minimum 
basic needs, it is also important to assist those 
with income-earning capacity to lift themselves 
out of poverty in a sustainable way.
0.6%, or around 3,500, of Malaysian Indian households are defined as 
poor .
79 At the same time, nearly 22,700 Malaysian Indian households 
earn below RM1,000 a month – a vulnerable group which should also be 
tracked.
80
The Malaysian Indian poverty problem is mainly an urban 
problem; over 80% of Malaysian Indian households are 
earning below the PLI are living and working in urban 
areas.
81
33
Malaysian Indian Blueprint 2017
<<<PAGE 36>>>
eKasih is a primary, but not sole, source for program selection by implementation 
agencies. Source: ICU
For example, the high public awareness of BR1M is partly due to the simple 
language and multiple-channel approach of BR1M’s public education and outreach 
campaigns. Source: Interviews with field workers
Although implementation agencies may use their discretionary powers to deliver 
assistance to undocumented Indians
Documentation issues are covered more fully in Chapter 4, ‘Increasing Social 
Inclusion’.
82
83
84
85
Key Issues & Current Interventions
Nearly 30,600 Malaysian Indian households are registered in the eKasih database, the main 
national registry of Malaysian low-income households used by implementation agencies to 
select program recipients and participants.
82 This represents around 5% of the total number 
of households registered in the database.
There have been periodic outreach efforts to register Malaysian Indian households into the database. These efforts need 
to be better coordinated with the data custodian, ICU, to avoid incorrect or insufficient collection of key profile data by 
untrained field operatives or community organisers. More trained volunteer resources such as university researchers would 
also be useful in assisting ICU to register and validate household information.
Outreach campaigns also need to be better designed and targeted such that those in the community are aware of eKasih 
and can directly refer themselves or poor households they know for registration (refer to sidebar on IB40 language 
comprehension levels). Low levels of awareness and familiarity with Government processes, particularly amongst those 
with low literacy, require that outreach campaigns be clear , simple and empathetic so that people are encouraged to come 
forward with the necessary information.
83 Schools, temples and other religious institutions could also be better leveraged 
as information and outreach channels.
By policy, the eKasih database is however limited only to Malaysian citizens. This affects the estimated 25,000 Indians who 
face documentation issues for whom the challenge of meeting basic needs is arguably more acute. The lack of citizenship 
documentation effectively bars them from formally accessing Government services, including welfare assistance.
84 A 
similar identification activity and an appropriate allocation is needed to support these households in meeting their basic 
needs while their applications for citizenship documentation are in progress.
85
34
Addressing FoundationsCHAPTER 2
<<<PAGE 37>>>
Registration in the database does not automatically translate into receipt of 
assistance; implementation agencies have relevant screening and selection criteria 
for different programs
Program Kebajikan Rakyat 1Malaysia (KAR1SMA) is a productive welfare assistance 
program aimed towards helping senior citizens, poor children, the disabled and 
widows to police or army personnel.  Source:  1Malaysia.com
86 87
Beyond eKasih registration, another key issue is the actual 
receipt of assistance. 86 Broadly, there are two types of 
assistance targeted to households below the poverty line: 
welfare support to cover day-to-day expenses and capacity-
building assistance to uplift recipients out of poverty. Of the 
former , nearly 123,000 Malaysian Indians or an estimated 
25,000 households have received support from welfare 
programs such as KAR1SMA under the Department of 
Social Welfare.
87 This level of Malaysian Indian participation 
is fairly representative of the population. 
IB40 LANGUAGE COMPREHENSION LEVELS
CONVERSE
English English English EnglishBM BM BM BMTamil Tamil Tamil Tamil
READINGCOMPREHEND COMPOSITION
Tamil and Bahasa Malaysia are the most understood languages among the respondents
Percentage of IB40 respondents with ‘good’ level of proficiency
(self-reported) in Tamil, Bahasa Malaysia and English;
Source :  Peninsular-wide face-to-face survey of IB40 undertaken by Blueprint Secretariat. n=2,087.
Over 75% of respondants were from households earning RM2,000 and below a month.
29% 32% 29% 27%
64% 64%
49% 46%
94% 93%
42% 38%
35
Malaysian Indian Blueprint 2017
<<<PAGE 38>>>
Breakdown of
1AZAM Participants
by Ethnicity, 2015
However , Malaysian Indian participation in capacity-building programs targeted at poor households is under-representative. 
Taking 1Azam as an example, the main income generation initiative targeted at households below the poverty line, 
participation of Malaysian Indians stand at only 2% of the total number of participants instead of the representative 7%. Of 
those who are considered hardcore poor and poor in the eKasih database, only 6% of the Indian registrants are enrolled in 
1AZAM programs, compared to 10% of Malay registrants and 11% of Chinese registrants.
88
T o reduce the gap, SEDIC has supplemented these programs by funding NGO-led skills training and income generation 
projects targeted at poor Malaysian Indian households, though coverage is limited. More efforts need to be made to 
coordinate these activities as well as to support implementation agencies in monitoring the rates of Indian participation in 
Government programs targeted at poor households. Having visibility and attention to participation rates will have knock-on 
effects on how program participants are selected and how program contents are delivered.
89
A final key issue is program design and effectiveness. Some programs have been criticized as being too equipment- and 
grants-focused rather than skills-focused, while only a few are observed to leverage the participants’ strengths or interests. 
In addition, the bulk of the programs are observed to be entrepreneurship- or agriculture-based, which may not be suitable 
for those more cut out for employment. There is also a high risk that program participants would fall back into poverty due 
to an inability to withstand shocks from inadequate financial management
90.
Interviews with Government officials and field workers Ministry of Women, Family and Community Development (KPWKM)
For example, language used
88
89
90
Other
4,844
Indian
347
Chinese
517
Malay
T otal
11,500
17,208
% 
INDIAN
2%
36
Addressing FoundationsCHAPTER 2
<<<PAGE 39>>>
The Government has recognised that assistance to meet basic needs must be accompanied by socioeconomic upliftment. A 
policy of ‘Productive Welfare’ is in place where a 2-year exit policy from welfare assistance is targeted for all able recipients.91 
T o meet this ambitious goal, the impact of relevant programs needs to be monitored and program refinements constantly 
made particularly in matching the programs to the participants’ capabilities and interests. Income upliftment programs 
also need to anticipate structural shifts in the economy to ensure that the jobs or entrepreneurship opportunities offered 
are relevant in the long-term.
Capacity-building and income generation programs should be complemented with modules on financial management as 
well as post-participation support to ensure that participants can build financial buffers to withstand economic shocks. 
According to an IB40 survey undertaken by the Blueprint Secretariat, only 10% of the IB40 households that earn below 
RM1,000 a month has long-term savings.
92 Separately, 84% of IB40 households earning below RM1K a month do not have 
sufficient savings to support 3 months’ living expenses.93
Program design features that work well for poor Malaysian Indian households – perhaps due to specific cultural or language 
reasons - should also be shared with implementation agencies to ensure that broad Government programs are even more 
effective for this demographic.
T erma Rujukan Pengurusan Projek Rintis 2 Years Exit Programme, Jabatan 
Kebajikan Masyarakat, 2014
Face-to-face survey of 2,087 Malaysian Indians in B40 households throughout 
Peninsular Malaysia conducted in July to September 2016. MIB Secretariat
Ibid.
91 92
93
37
Malaysian Indian Blueprint 2017
<<<PAGE 40>>>
Moving Forward: Recommendations and Initiatives
In line with broad Government aims, the MIB 
aims to ensure that poor Indian households 
in Malaysia have their basic needs met and 
they are assisted out of poverty sustainably. 
T owards this aim, the following targets are 
set:
Ensure all IB40 households below the poverty line are 
registered in the eKasih database and receive necessary 
welfare assistance
Ensure the average monthly income of poor Indian 
households is double the current national PLI (RM950)
94
Ensure at least 50% of registered poor households can 
demonstrate increased savings within 5 years of MIB 
implementation
95
Encouraging community referral through hotline, 
social media, Tamil radio etc.
Collaboration with KR1M and other partners for 
campaign details to be printed on essential food items
Increase scouting, identification and validation 
exercises with trained volunteers and community 
organisers
Targeted neighbourhood outreach with partners such 
as schools and temples
•
•
•
(i) 
(ii)
(iii)
(iv)
1. eKasih and welfare assistance registration campaign
Working together with ICU and Department of Social Welfare (“DOSW”), the MIB Implementation Unit will undertake a 
targeted awareness and outreach campaign, through community-relevant channels, to identify and register poor Malaysian 
Indian households into the eKasih registry, with follow-ups to prioritise selection for welfare assistance. Some measures 
include:
In order to achieve these goals,
the Blueprint proposes to undertake the following:
Baseline to be set in 2017 based on survey of savings levels of poor Malaysian 
Indian households registered in eKasih database
In line with 11th Malaysia Plan target94 95
38
Addressing FoundationsCHAPTER 2
<<<PAGE 41>>>
Local level support in identification and outreach to 
deserving household or individuals, leveraging trusted 
community leaders/personalities
Matching between participants’ current home life 
obligations, interests and skills with program content
Local level program delivery undertaken or supported 
by personnel able to communicate and establish trust 
with program participants
Complementary modules in financial management
Formation of support groups and networks amongst 
participants for motivation and post-program 
encouragement
Medium-term monitoring and impact measurement
(i) 
(ii)
(iii)
(iv)
(v)
(vi)
3. Seed and support savings habit
 A RM500 mil PNB unit trust seed fund will be established 
to supplement the savings of B40 households, particularly 
those below the poverty line. Specific PNB unit trust  schemes 
will be carved out for IB40 households and will receive 
matching booster units from the seed fund, depending on 
income level and savings amount.
96 The funds are locked 
in for a minimum period but can be withdrawn in specified 
cases of emergency or economic shock.
The MIB Implementation Unit will also call for submissions 
from the private and non-governmental sector for innovative 
programs that result in increased savings amongst poor and 
B40 Indian households. Innovative programs could involve 
facilitation of micro-savings through the use of mobile 
technology and a deep understanding of IB40 consumer 
behaviour .
2. Redesign, testing and refinement of income generation programs
In partnership with the Department of Social Welfare, the MIB Implementation Unit will pilot the redesign, testing and 
refining of income generation initiatives in neighbourhoods with a high density of Indian poor/IB40. Potential refinements 
include:
Matching ratio to be determined by scheme T echnical Committee comprised of the 
Blueprint Implementation Unit and MOF , amongst others
96
39
Malaysian Indian Blueprint 2017
<<<PAGE 42>>>
B. Housing 
Housing and shelter is a basic necessity. Safe and comfortable housing, including its 
surroundings, is essential for the wellbeing of a household. For low-income households 
especially, housing and social environs plays a critical role in providing support in areas such 
as childcare and safety. The middle and high income households manage these needs by 
paying for related services directly or indirectly.
Illegal squatter settlements became one of the main housing solutions for the hundreds of thousands displaced Indian 
estate workers in the 1970s to the 1990s. The Government’s zero squatter policy, initiated in 1998, have markedly reduced 
the number of squatter settlements in favour of relocation into public housing with better amenities though this has also 
generated a separate set of challenges such as congestion, ethnic relations and social ills.
40
Addressing FoundationsCHAPTER 2
<<<PAGE 43>>>
Although the incidence of squatter 
living has been reduced, access 
to affordable housing is still a 
challenge. The problem is faced by 
all ethnicities but there appears to be 
disproportionate under-ownership 
of homes amongst the Malaysian 
Indian community.
Only 56% of Malaysian Indian households own their places of 
residence compared to 62% Bumiputera households and 61% 
Chinese households.
97 Amongst the B40, Malaysian Indian 
ownership of property is the lowest, at 3%, compared to 7% 
Bumiputera and 12% Chinese
98.  
Key Issues & Current Interventions
Overall Malaysians Amongst the B40
61%
3%
62% 7%
56%
12%
Low-cost and affordable housing is a national priority; in 
the 11th Malaysia Plan the Government has pledged to 
ensure that all Malaysians are able to sustainably own or 
rent affordable housing by 2020. Several housing schemes 
under the Federal Government have helped scores of B40 
families to do so, such as the Program Bantuan Rumah, 
Program Perumahan Rakyat, Rumah Rakyat Mesra 
1Malaysia and Rumah Wilayah Persekutuan.
99 These, as well 
as other housing schemes by respective State Governments, 
have allowed B40 families to access affordable shelter 
and in cases of ownership, to build equity. Nevertheless, 
providing sufficient affordable housing against a backdrop 
of rising land prices is a major challenge.
2010 Characteristics of Households Survey, Department of Statistics, Malaysia
‘NEP to NEM: Who Cares? Wealth Distribution in Malaysia’, Muhammed Abdul 
Khalid, UKM, 2011
 11th Malaysian Plan97
98
99
INDIANS WHO OWN THEIR OWN 
PLACES OF RESIDENCE 
BUMIPUTERA WHO OWN THEIR OWN 
PLACES OF RESIDENCE 
CHINESE WHO OWN THEIR OWN 
PLACES OF RESIDENCE 
41
Malaysian Indian Blueprint 2017
<<<PAGE 44>>>
The issue of insufficient supply of affordable housing is well established and is being addressed in various forums. For this 
Blueprint, the pertinent issue is allocation. More needs to be done to monitor the proportion of low cost housing granted to 
Malaysian Indian applicants and ensure fairness. A 2016 IB40 survey undertaken by the MIB Secretariat found that housing 
is the second highest form of assistance requested by the IB40 respondents. 47% of the same pool of respondents, i.e. 
almost half of those surveyed, also felt that housing allocations were unfair to Malaysian Indians.
100
T o date, the monitoring of allocations is undertaken on an ad hoc basis. For this to be systematic and internalised, state and 
federal agencies need to take on targets to reduce the inter-ethnic housing gap, particularly pertaining to allocations of 
owned units. Financing solutions, such as rent-to-buy schemes should also be provided, particularly for those who cannot 
qualify for commercial mortgages for reasons apart from affordability.
101
Apart from general low-cost housing, a distinct problem pertinent to the Malaysian Indian community is the resettlement 
of ex-estate workers. In decades’ past, the sale and conversion of estates into housing or industrial developments forced 
hundreds of thousands of retrenched estate workers to move out of the estates and into urban squatter areas or temporary 
longhouses.
102 Often there was no assistance to transition into the new environment, which led to the creation of a significant 
proportion of the Malaysian Indian urban poor strata today.
Face-to-face survey of 2,087 Malaysian Indians in B40 households throughout 
Peninsular Malaysia conducted in July to September 2016. MIB Secretariat
Reasons include lack of sufficient income documentation, particularly for contract 
or day workers.
Due to public attention, there has been increased effort in recent years by 
plantation companies and state governments to resettle estate workers in new 
low-cost housing; it is usually a protracted negotiation process with multiple 
stakeholders and success is very much on a case-by-case basis
100
101
102
42
Addressing FoundationsCHAPTER 2
<<<PAGE 45>>>
T oday an estimated 36% of estate workers, comprising around 16,000 households, are Indian. 103 Due to public attention, 
there has been increased effort in recent years by plantation companies and the Government to resettle estate workers in 
new low-cost housing or to provide facilities for their ageing estate workforce.
The CCIC has pledged to ensure the provision of housing facilities for estate workers and to otherwise ensure the IB40’s 
housing needs are met. In the case of resettlement however , much depends on the capacity and will of the plantation 
company to resettle the workers in a just manner .
104 Some cases are thoroughly negotiated while others do not take into 
account the workers’ needs or ability to adjust to completely new environments. Some resettlement housing conditions and 
social environs can be worse than those in the estate.
105
Mediating the fears and needs of the estate workers is also critical to closing resettlement negotiations. In sum, successful 
resettlement requires advance planning and the facilitated involvement of several stakeholders, including the state and 
Federal governments. There is also a need to assist the estate workers to integrate into the new environment with appropriate 
skills training and other resettlement support.
In 2011 the Government earmarked RM50 million 
under the ‘Skim Khas Pembiayaan Rumah Pekerja Estet 
(SKRE)’ to provide loan facilities to estate workers, up to a 
maximum of RM100,000 per applicant for houses priced 
below RM120,000.
106 However , this scheme needs to be 
accompanied by a matching allotted supply of low cost 
housing in the locality or there would be no prospect of 
drawing down the facility.
107 Housing in this price bracket is 
extremely limited; as an example, in 2014 only 8,780 units 
of low cost housing approved for construction were priced 
below RM100,000.
108 The eligibility criteria for the loan 
scheme also need to be reviewed to provide recourse for 
estate workers that cannot meet the current criteria.
109
Number of Estate Workers By Ethnicity (2015), Jabatan T enaga Kerja
Interview with the National Union of Plantation Workers and field experts
Ibid.
This is an initiative undertaken by Jabatan T enaga Kerja (JTK) to assist the existing 
plantation workers in housing ownership. Source: “Kajian Tahap Sosioekonomi 
Pekerja Estet T empatan dan Kaitannya dengan SKRE”, Jabatan T enaga Kerja, 2014
Applicants are also subject to credit assessment and approval by the banking 
channel partner , Bank Simpanan Nasional. Conditions may need to be reviewed, 
given high rejection rates (81%)
Kementerian Kesejahteraan Bandar , Perumahan Dan Kerajaan T empatan (KPKT)
Due to prevailing terms related to minimum income levels, employment status and 
size of estate
103
104
105
106
107
108
109
43
Malaysian Indian Blueprint 2017
<<<PAGE 46>>>
Moving Forward: Recommendations and Initiatives
 Cases occurring before 2017110
T o realise the pledges of the Government 
and the CCIC regarding shelter and housing, 
particularly for the most vulnerable groups 
in society, this Blueprint aims to meet the 
following targets:
Ensure IB40 households are receiving a proportionate 
share of low-cost and affordable public sector housing in 
urban areas
Ensure past resettlement cases of Indian estate workers 
are resolved within 5 years of MIB implementation
110
Ensure future resettlement cases of Indian estate workers 
are anticipated and fairly resolved
•
•
•
1. IB40 housing status database & monitoring
The MIB Implementation Unit will survey IB40 households 
periodically to track housing status (and other poverty 
dimensions), with focus on those who have applied, or who 
are qualified, for low-cost housing. T o ensure that there is 
progress on the housing status, the MIB Implementation 
Unit will work closely with relevant local authorities, state 
and federal agencies to set up joint targets towards closing 
the home ownership gap amongst the IB40, particularly in 
localities where the difference between applications and 
allocations are most evident.
The MIB Implementation Unit will also undertake a baseline 
study to build a database of pending as well as potential 
future resettlement cases.
2. Professional mediation and facilitation
T o drive the process and assist impartially in resettlement 
negotiations, a trained mediation team under the MIB 
Implementation Unit will be deployed. The team will 
work with worker representatives, plantation companies, 
Department of Labour Malaysia (Jabatan T enaga Kerja, JTK), 
state governments and federal housing agencies to facilitate 
resettlement and to help resolve issues arising, including 
to identify and assign low cost housing or managed care 
facilities within reasonable timelines. Opportunities for 
establishing partnerships with the private sector to support 
the provision of housing or managed care facilities will be 
explored in underserved areas.
T o deliver on the targets, the MIB aims to effect the following:
44
Addressing FoundationsCHAPTER 2
<<<PAGE 47>>>
3. Policy and regulatory review
T o address resettlement issues long-term, the MIB 
Implementation Unit will research and propose a policy 
framework as well as regulatory amendments towards 
establishing clearer and firmer guidelines on the process 
and obligations related to resettlement. The framework 
should include duration of mediation & resettlement, 
guidelines in estimation of fair compensation, provision for 
alternative housing or managed care facilities, as well as 
support in transitioning to a new environment.
As part of this review, the MIB Implementation Unit will work 
with JTK to review the design and eligibility requirements of 
the SKRE scheme.
4. Adjustment support post-resettlement
Tapping on relevant family- and income-related initiatives 
within this Blueprint, the MIB Implementation Unit will 
provide support for resettled Indian families to adjust to 
their new surroundings.
45
Malaysian Indian Blueprint 2017
<<<PAGE 48>>>
C. Family Stability
The family unit is a core institution within the societal structure and its functioning fulfils the 
social, economic and psychological needs of individuals. The strength of family units, or its 
absence, has a huge effect on the capacity of its members to realise their full potential.
 Interviews with Government officers, NGOs and other stakeholders
‘Aspirations of Malaysian Indians T owards 2020’ written by Dr . Denison Jayasooria, 
2015
 Malaysia Family Well-being Index, 2011111
112
113
The lack of family stability is found to be at the core of 
several significant issues covered in this Blueprint such 
as educational attainment, at-risk youth and crime.
111 
Therefore, the MIB views family stability as a foundational 
requirement in enabling IB40 households to improve 
their current and inter-generational socioeconomic 
status. Dysfunction includes domestic violence, alcohol 
and substance abuse, gang related activities and others, 
which contribute to wastage in adult capability as well as 
educational underachievement in children.
112
In 2011, the Ministry of Women, Family and Community 
Development (KPWKM) adapted international studies to 
develop a Family Wellbeing Index to measure the wellbeing 
of Malaysian families. The Index covers the health of 
family relationships, family economy, family health, family 
safety, family and community and family and religion or 
spirituality
113. In the inaugural year of the Index, Indian 
parents scored the lowest (7 .23 out of 10) compared to Malay 
parents (8.04 out of 10) and Chinese parents (7 .29 out of 10). 
Family Wellbeing Index 2011
Parents Score
by Ethnicity
Overall Family 
Well-Being Index
Family 
Relationship 
Index
Family
Economy Index
Family
Safety Index
Family & 
Community Index
Family & Religion 
Spirituality Index
10
8
Malay Chinese Indian National Average
6
4
2
0
46
Addressing FoundationsCHAPTER 2
<<<PAGE 49>>>
Laporan Statistik Jabatan Kebajikan Masyarakat 2014
Ibid.
Ibid.114
115
116
The high incidence of domestic abuse among the Malaysian Indian community given its overall population ratio is also 
alarming: In 2014, 22% of cases reported to KPWKM occurred in Indian households (against 7% of Malaysian population), 
while 56% and 13% occurred in Malay and Chinese households respectively.
114 Alcoholism is cited as one of the top 3 causes 
of domestic violence amongst Malaysian Indians. 115 In addition, 12% of reported cases of children in need of care and 
protection are Malaysian Indian.116
Cases of Reported Domestic Violence
by Ethnic Group 2014
Malay Chinese Indian Others
500
400
300
200
100
0
409
96
159
67
47
Malaysian Indian Blueprint 2017
<<<PAGE 50>>>
Key Issues & Current Intervention
‘Current drinker’ is defined as those who have consumed alcoholic beverages for 
the past 12 months while ‘binge drinker’ refers to those who consume large quanti-
ties of alcoholic beverages (six or more drinks) in a single session. Source: National 
Health & Morbidity Survey 2015 - Non-Communicable Diseases, Risk Factors & 
Other Health Problems, Ministry of Health
Interviews with agencies and community workers
Interviews with Government agencies
Ibid.
120117
118
119
Dysfunctional families often experience more than one stressful event at any point in time. 
Although there are many programs for dysfunctional families that are currently in place, they 
are mainly short-term based.
117 Moreover , outreach to Malaysian Indian families is currently 
limited compared to the past when there were more Indian/Tamil-speaking officers and 
more targeted family planning programs in the estates
118. With the displacement of estate 
workers and their households to urban areas, it became more difficult to reach these Indian 
families. Those who are reached are also often resistant to assistance due to lack of trust, 
cultural incompatibility or shame.
119
Another reason for resistance is the acculturation of certain issues, particularly high alcohol consumption, which is seen as 
common practice. An estimated 11.2% of Indians above 18 years old are ‘current drinkers’, 62.5% of whom are categorised 
as ‘binge drinkers’.
120
Existing measures provide a start but more must be done to address issues of longer-term support and family resistance. 
Firstly, locally based trained caseworkers need to be assigned to identify families to build trust and to institute a systematic 
turnaround program. The caseworkers should understand the identified family’s worldview, which is rooted not only in their 
socioeconomic status but also their social context, culture and religion.
Secondly, awareness on the role of the family in perpetuating Malaysian Indian community issues needs to be increased. 
Dysfunctional behaviors’ that are seen to be common practice need to be seen as a challenge for the community and family 
unit to overcome. In cases where mental health is a contributing factor , referrals need to be made to the right parties and 
medical professionals to ensure that the appropriate level of support is provided.
48
Addressing FoundationsCHAPTER 2
<<<PAGE 51>>>
Based on baseline of end 2016 121
Moving Forward: Recommendations and Initiatives
The Blueprint fully supports KPWKM’s 
efforts on family development and seeks to 
ensure that Malaysian Indian families benefit 
from current programs and their continuous 
improvement. T owards this aim, the following 
targets are set:
Close the gap between Malaysian Indian households and 
the national average in the Family Well-Being Index
Ensure reported cases of abuse and domestic violence 
within Malaysian Indian households is on a downward 
trend
121
•
•
The program aims to tackle multiple family issues via hand-holding and family skills building to achieve several key 
targets such as educational attendance, productive employment, violence avoidance and others. T rained and experienced 
caseworkers proficient in Tamil or the relevant vernacular language work with families on a pre-agreed family improvement 
plan, which integrates values and spiritual components. As pillars of the community, schools and temples will be engaged 
as program partners wherever relevant and effective.
The program is to be piloted over a minimum of two years, with sufficient budget and resources including support via 
partnerships with NGOs, social enterprises and the private sector . Best practices from the pilot will be shared with KPWKM 
and other relevant agencies for concerted rollout on identified IB40 families.
Pilot and roll out a Family Turnaround program 1.
T o deliver on the targets, the MIB aims to effect the following:
49
Malaysian Indian Blueprint 2017
<<<PAGE 52>>>
A dedicated ‘change agent/mediator’, dedicated to a family;
Practical ‘hands-on’ support;
A long term approach - minimum 2 years; including control test;
Considering the family as a whole - rather than responding to each 
problem, or person separately;
Common purpose and agreed action.
This public awareness campaign functions complements the Family T urnaround program outlined earlier and seeks to create 
desire for change within troubled families and the general Malaysian Indian community, particularly against ‘normalised’ 
dysfunctions such as regular alcohol overconsumption
122 and violence. The awareness campaign is accompanied by an 
information and referral service to support families coming forward with questions or requests for assistance.
Establish a ‘Family First’ campaign and support platform2.
Supply-side interventions against alcohol overconsumption is tackled in the 
Inclusion chapter
122
IB40 FAMILY TURNAROUND PILOT PROGRAM
(Illustration)
Identification and outreach
Family turnaround plan co-agreed between the caseworker and 
families, including intensive family support services, substance abuse 
abstinence, family strengthening program, skills training, job placement
Impact measurement
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
Scope
Principles
Domain experts - full time family officers, 
dedicated officers to manage and oversee data 
gathering, implementation and tracking.
95% educational attendance
Unemployed family member 
moved into continous 
employment for 3-6 months
Service providers / NGO; Donors; PPP Partners
Youth Crime reduced by 50%
Anti-social behaviour (including 
domestic violence) reduced by 
50% across the family
Schools, T emples, Public Halls
•
•
•
•
Milestones
/ Targets
Resources People
2016-2020
Partners & 
Stakeholders
2016-2026
Facilities
50
Addressing FoundationsCHAPTER 2
<<<PAGE 53>>>
STRENGTHENING FAMILIES PROGRAM (USA)
Identification & Outreach
Resources
Program Curriculum
Monitoring & Evaluation
A benchmark program for parents and children in troubled families
The Strengthening Families Program is designed to improve parenting skills, 
strengthen family realtionships and reduce problem behaviours including 
alcohol or substance abuse.
Follow up studies found reductions in risk behaviours including alcohol, tobacco 
and drug use up to five years after program graduation. The program has been 
adapted in over 35 countries.
Identify targets through partner referrals e.g. 
churches, schools etc. “ Target the student to 
target the families”
Incentives for program participation such as 
childcare, food, transportation allowance
Marketing efforts through schools, 
grocery stores and otger community 
gathering sites
Funding through federal and state 
government grants, sponsorship etc.
Program participant incentives supported by 
sponsorship.
Facilitators are trained to ensure program 
fidelity; recertification required every 3 years
Program sessions are conducted in schools 
and community centres
Curriculum materials are bilingual - mother 
tounge and english.
User friendly materials and methodology e.g. 
games, skills practice, family projects
Parents: listening, getting help, etc.
Youth: understanding parent’s challenges, 
peer pressure resistence skills, etc.
Families :  mutual goal setting, joint 
problem solving, family undestanding, 
etc.
Pre-and post-test; follow up evaluation visits
Obeserver appointed to ensure quality delivery of 
sessions
Impact targeted: reduced aggressive behavoiur , 
increase in school achievement, reduced alcohol 
and drug use behaviour , reduced symptoms of 
depression, etc.
Source : Strengthening Families Program
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
51
Malaysian Indian Blueprint 2017
<<<PAGE 54>>>

<<<PAGE 55>>>
CHAPTER
3
Realising Each 
Child’s Potential

<<<PAGE 56>>>
Education is particularly important to uplift the 
socioeconomic status of those in the bottom 40% of the 
population. Education has the potential of levelling the 
playing field between social classes; indeed it has been 
noted that “post secondary schooling is a filter that keeps 
parents’ economic position from simply passing straight 
through to their children, thus simultaneously promoting 
economic efficiency, social justice, and social mobility. ”
123
Although much has been achieved to uplift the educational 
attainment of Malaysians overall, the educational 
attainment amongst Malaysian Indians reveals much room 
for improvement. Young adult Indians provide a stark 
illustration: 9% of Indians in the 20-24 age group have low 
educational attainment (i.e. only up to lower secondary), 
compared to 6% of Malays and 5% of Chinese. Similarly, for 
the slightly older cohort aged 25-29, 13% of Indians in this 
age bracket have low educational attainment (i.e. only up to 
lower secondary), compared with 9% of Malays and 7% of 
Chinese.
124
Haveman, Robert & Smeeding, Timothy (2006) “The Role of Higher Education in 
Social Mobility” The Future of Children Vol. 16 No. 2 pp. 125-150
Education and Social Characteristics of The Population (2010) Department of 
Statistics, Malaysia
123 124
The importance of education is self-evident; people who have benefited from quality 
education generally have greater life opportunities, higher income, better health and a better 
quality of life. Education increases the productivity and economic growth of a nation. It is also 
important in bringing about social, economic, and political inclusion.
Education & Nurturing
The mission of this Blueprint is to close the inter-
ethnic gap in educational attainment as well as 
to ensure that a minimum level of educational 
attainment is achieved for all Indian children. This 
mission complements the Government’s broader 
initiatives to improve Malaysia’s educational 
system, as outlined in the Malaysia Education 
Blueprint (“MEB”) and the 11th Malaysia Plan. 
Against this backdrop, the Blueprint aims to 
ensure that the Malaysian Indian Community, 
particularly the IB40, can access or otherwise 
benefit from the relevant initiatives under the 
MEB and the 11th Malaysia Plan, complementing 
these initiatives with Indian-centric actions where 
appropriate.
CHAPTER 3
54
Realising Each Child’s Potential54
<<<PAGE 57>>>
Highest Level of Education among Population                               by Ethnicity, 2010
This Blueprint also sets out to improve current Indian-
focused interventions, which were put in place for the first 
time relatively recently. Recognising the need to close the 
large gap
125 between Tamil-vernacular primary schools 
(“SJKT”) and other types of schools, the Government has 
formed a unit within the Prime Minister’s Department, 
PTST ,
126 to improve the status of SJKTs throughout the 
country. The unit was also tasked to produce the ‘Action Plan 
for the Future of Tamil Schools’, a comprehensive charter 
for the continuous development of SJKTs in Malaysia. This 
action plan, which was launched in February 2014, also 
guides much of this Blueprint’s recommendations on SJKTs.
Other Indian-focused interventions were taken up by 
SEDIC,
127  a unit set up in 2014 to work with NGOs on social 
assistance in a variety of areas. Some of these programs 
include assistance for Indian students and youths in 
overcoming issues pertinent to the Malaysian Indian 
community, such as transitioning to a Malay-vernacular 
secondary school, qualifying and applying for tertiary-level 
institutions, underperformance, dropping out, exposure to 
gangs and others. While these interventions have provided 
a measure of progress, it is still early days and more can be 
done to lift the education attainment level of the Malaysian 
Indian community at least up to the national average. In 
making its recommendations, this Blueprint is driven both 
by the conviction that interventions are most effective when 
implemented early, as well as the resolve to ensure that no 
child or youth under the age of 18 is left behind. 
T ertiary
(Adv Diploma,
Degree or Higher)
13% 16%
1.2%
13%
39%
4% 2%
12% 9%
0.3%
23%
28%
4% 1%
10% 11%
0.5%
16%
36%
6% 3%
T ertiary
(Certificate/ 
Diploma)
Certificate
(Skills)
Pre-U Upper
Secondary
Lower
Secondary
Primary
The gap pertains to a number of areas, including preschool education, 
infrastructure and facilities, teachers and teacher training, students and academic 
achievement, location of schools, curriculum, remedial and special education, 
leadership, the involvement of parents and the community, and financial matters
  PTST
  Socio-Economic Development of the Indian Community Unit
125 126
127
Aged 
20-24
Malay Chinese Indian
Malaysian Indian Blueprint 2017
55
<<<PAGE 58>>>
Ensure performance of IB40 children in literacy and numeracy as well as UPSR and SPM results are at least on 
par with the national average within 10 years of MIB implementation
Ensure downward trend in the dropout rate among IB40 children at primary and secondary levels 128
Ensure at least 30% increase in enrolment and graduation from tertiary institutions (including TVET) among 
IB40 youth in tertiary institutions (including TVET) within 10 years of MIB implementation 129
Ensure performance gaps of SJKT vs. SRK and SJKC 
in literacy, numeracy and UPSR subject pass rates 
are closed within 10 years of MIB implementation 
Ensure all SJKTs achieve minimum standards in 
infrastructure, staffing, and other key indicators of 
school quality within 10 years of MIB implementation 
Ensure all SJKT teachers and head teachers show 
improvement in performance through a systematic 
professional development program and a clear 
career pathway
Ensure all SJKT children exhibit language proficiency 
and are fully prepared for mainstreaming, none 
needing to attend Remove Classes within 5 years of 
MIB implementation 
Ensure Malaysian Indian children aged 4 to 6 years, 
regardless of income and documentation status, 
receive childcare or early education
130
Ensure all SJKTs identified as ‘preschool feasible’ 
have established preschools with sufficient class 
sizes within 5 years of MIB implementation 
Ensure all Indian-vernacular preschools, i.e. 
preschools established in SJKTs, temples or private 
grounds, are staffed by teachers with sufficient 
preschool qualifications or training 
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
Overall: IB40 Children & Youth
Primary Level – SJKTEarly Education
Realising Each Child’s
Potential:  Targets
Complementing targets set in the 11th Malaysia Plan and the 
Malaysian Education Blueprint, the MIB sets out to achieve the 
following:
Dropout rates do not include those identified for streaming into TVET and/or 
enrolment into at-risk children & youth programs 
As measured against the 2016/17 baseline
In line with the Malaysian Education Blueprint which aims to ensure 100% 
preschool enrolment by 2020
128
129
130
CHAPTER 3
56
Realising Each Child’s Potential56
<<<PAGE 59>>>
Ensure performance gaps in literacy, numeracy and 
UPSR amongst Indian students in SRKs vs. their 
peers in SRK, SJKT and SJKC are closed within 10 
years of MIB implementation
Ensure performance gaps in PT3 and SPM of Indian 
students vs. their peers are closed within 10 years of 
MIB implementation
Ensure Indian children and families receive early 
guidance on post-PT3 or post-secondary educational, 
training, apprenticeship and employment options
Enable and facilitate at least 7% Indian enrolment in 
all Government colleges, universities, polytechnics 
and other tertiary/further education institutions, 
without compromising entry standards, within 10 
years of MIB implementation
Ensure deserving cases of Indian youth in financial 
need are supported by scholarships or loans
Ensure reduction of Indian youth involvement in 
crime and juvenile delinquency 
Ensure improving trend in risk assessments of 
delinquency and offending amongst Indian children 
and youth
131
• •
•
•
•
•
•
Primary Level –
National Schools
Secondary Level
Tertiary Education At-Risk Youth
Risk assessment tools to be developed and implemented in 2017/18 based on 
risk factors identified by field practitioners, such as family environment, substance 
usage, personal disposition etc.
131
Malaysian Indian Blueprint 2017
5757
<<<PAGE 60>>>
A. Overall: IB40 Children & Youth
SJKT DURIAN TUNGGAL, MELAKA 
Special funding from YAB PM of RM 500,000
for a new school hall, completed in 2016. 
Low socioeconomic status is a key cause of poor educational attainment amongst school 
children, which in turn perpetuates low socioeconomic status in the next generation and 
beyond. In fact, international studies show that the effect of parents’ class on a child’s 
education is larger than the effects of factors such as school or teacher quality.
132 Apart 
from means, parents with lower socioeconomic status generally have less time, attentional 
bandwidth, awareness of parenting requirements, and ‘income class capital’ – factors that 
are as vital, if not more so, as the quality of schools and teachers.
133
“UPSR Achievements of National Level and Indian Ethnic Group”, Ministry of 
Education Malaysia.
“SPM Achievements of National Level and Indian Ethnic Group”, Ministry of 
Education Malaysia
Greenstone, M; Looney, A; Patashnik, J; & Yu, M (2013) Thirteen Economic Facts 
about Social Mobility and the Role of Education, Policy Memo for The Hamilton 
Project
 “Class and family in America: Minding the nurture gap” (2015, March 21) The Econ-
omist. Accessed at: http://www.economist.com/news/books-and-arts/21646708-
social-mobility-depends-what-happens-first-years-life-minding-nurture-gap
Climbing the Ladder; Socioeconomic Mobility in Malaysia. Khazanah Research 
Institute, October 2016
132
133
134
135
136
For children born to parents with no formal education, 33% of 
Bumiputera and 44% of Chinese children succeed in attaining tertiary 
education compared to only 5% of Indian children; this inter-ethnic 
pattern is similar for parents with primary and secondary education. 
The inter-ethnic educational attainment pattern of Malaysian Indians 
only disappears at the highest level i.e. where parents possess tertiary 
educational qualifications.
134
In 2015, the percentage of Indian students who passed all subjects in the UPSR examinations stood at 54%, lower than 
the national average of 66%.
135 In the same year , the percentage of Indian students who passed all subjects in the SPM 
examinations was 44%, lower than the national average of 55%. 136 There is a high likelihood that IB40 children and youth 
are the main contributors to this underperformance. Apart from underperformance, there is also the arguably more serious 
problem of dropouts. Among children who drop out of primary school, around 13% are Indian, a disproportionately high 
percentage given that Indian children comprise 6% of all primary school students. At the secondary school level, Indian 
youth comprise 8% of total dropout cases in 2014. Again, there is a high likelihood that IB40 children and youth are the main 
contributors to these statistics.
There is evidence that the effect 
of household socioeconomic 
characteristics, such as educational 
levels, is more pronounced for 
Malaysian Indians than other ethnicities. 
CHAPTER 3
58
Realising Each Child’s Potential
<<<PAGE 61>>>
SJKT LADANG WEST COUNTRY BARAT, SELANGOR
Stimulus package of RM 2.98 Million for a
new multi-storey school block, completed in 2015
Periasamy, Santhi (2016) “Underachieving Youths and the Education System: A 
Case Study of the EWRF Research Programs” in Denison, J & Nathan, KS (Eds.) 
Contemporary Malaysian Indians, Bangi: KITA, pp. 409-425; CHILD submission for 
the 11th Malaysia Plan
137
Key Issues & Current Interventions
The issue of access to quality schools and teachers are addressed in subsequent sections 
of this Blueprint chapter . In the case of IB40 children and youth however , a chief priority is 
to consider and address the impact of parents and the home environment. The contribution 
of the family to student potential and performance is not as widely recognised as that of the 
education system, as evidenced by relative budget allocations, research, and policy attention. 
According to field workers the low educational attainment of IB40 parents and caregivers, 
which in many cases is exacerbated by illiteracy and/or dysfunctional behaviour , makes them 
relatively unable to assist with schoolwork or provide positive discipline and reinforcement 
compared to middle- and upper-income parents.
137
The capacity of schools and teachers to deal with class-driven underperformance is also a challenge. Schools and teachers 
need to be equipped, sensitised and trained to address needs of children from underprivileged homes, which, in the case 
of Indian families, could include a disproportionate number with parents who are incarcerated or afflicted with substance 
or alcohol abuse.
A number of measures have been undertaken to support children and youth from underprivileged backgrounds. Broad 
Government programs have focused on financial aid, with assistance in the form of free textbooks, supplementary food 
programs and tuition aid amongst others. In terms of Indian-focused interventions, measures have focused on grants to 
Non-Governmental Organisations (“NGOs”) for tuition, homework guidance, mentoring, as well as parental engagement. 
These measures are helpful but could be better integrated. A holistic view is needed to, firstly, ensure sufficient coverage 
of IB40 children and households, particularly those most at risk of serious underperformance; secondly, to deploy a more 
comprehensive and structured set of assistance based on the needs and profiles of the child and parents or caregivers; and 
thirdly, to evaluate impact and make course corrections or refinements. Closer inter-agency collaboration and increased 
community participation is also needed to ensure that the cause of uplifting IB40 children and youth is strongly championed, 
with a shared interest in ensuring results.
Malaysian Indian Blueprint 2017
59
<<<PAGE 62>>>
CHARACTERISTICS OF IB40 PARENTS
WITH SCHOOL -GOING CHILDREN
CONVERSE READINGCOMPREHENSION COMPOSITION
of PARENTS with 
school-going children 
below 18 years old 
expect their children 
to continue studies 
beyond Form 5
73%
7%
31%
33%
23%
5%
78%
58% 54%
96% 95%
79% 76%
99% 99%
65% 60%
Primary School
Did not attend school
T ertiary
Upper Secondary
Lower Secondary
English English English EnglishBM BM BM BMTamil Tamil Tamil Tamil
68%
Source : Peninsular-wide face-to-face survey of>2,000 IB40 respondents, 2016. Malaysian Indian Blueprint Secretariat.
‘Good’ level of language proficiency as self-reported 
by IB40 respondents with school-going children:
Highest level of education of IB40
respondents with school-going children :
CHAPTER 3
60
Realising Each Child’s Potential
<<<PAGE 63>>>
Moving Forward: Recommendations and Initiatives
T o ensure that all children and youth 
from IB40 households are not left 
behind, this Blueprint aims to achieve 
the following targets:
Ensure performance of IB40 children in literacy and numeracy as 
well as UPSR, PT3 and SPM results are at least on par with the 
national average within 10 years of MIB implementation
Ensure downward trend in the dropout rate among IB40 children at 
primary and secondary levels
138
Ensure at least 30% increase in enrolment and graduation from 
tertiary institutions (including TVET) among IB40 youth within 10 
years of MIB implementation
139
•
•
•
T o structure, establish, and implement a cohesive Initiative focused on tracking and improving the educational attainment of 
IB40 children and youth. The Initiative is to have a clear political mandate, comprehensive programmatic scope, indicators 
and milestone targets, budget and dedicated resources, platforms for inter-agency collaboration, advisory working groups, 
and avenues for partnerships with NGOs, social enterprises and the private sector as illustrated below. Results of the 
Initiative are to be published periodically, and approaches are to be continuously fine-tuned based on new learnings.
Family-related modules within the IB40 Educational 
Performance Initiative will be linked to the Family T urnaround 
Program (outlined in the ‘Addressing Foundations’ chapter) 
to support IB40 parents and caregivers in providing a 
positive home study culture.
Modules related to disciplinary cases or at-risk children & 
youth behaviour within this umbrella Initiative will be linked 
to the At-Risk Children & Youth Program (outlined in the ‘At-
Risk Children & Youth’ section below).
Modules related to non-enrolment due to documentation 
issues will be linked to the Documentation Program 
(outlined in the ‘Inclusion’ chapter).
T o deliver on these targets, this Blueprint aims to effect the following:
Establish IB40 Educational Performance Initiative1. 
Dropout rates do not include those identified for streaming into TVET and/or 
enrolment into at-risk youth programs
  
As measured against the 2016/17 baseline
138
139
Malaysian Indian Blueprint 2017
61
<<<PAGE 64>>>
Identification and outreach
Student’s learning needs and aspirations, including role modelling
Parental engagement/home learning environment (link to Family T urnaround Initiative)
T eacher and school engagement on IB40 educational needs
Additional support e.g. tuition, special education
Impact measurement, continuous improvement and service provider capacity building
•
•
•
•
•
•
Scope
Detailed design & establishment 
of initiative
Student, HH, school and teacher 
identification & baselining 
(database)
Programmatic rollout on 25% of 
database; impact measurement
Minimum 20% reduction in 
intra-ethnic & intra-ethnic gap in 
literacy, numeracy, UPSR, SPM & 
drop-out rates vs. 2016 baseline
Domain experts-full time 
executives as well as advisors
Dedicated officers to manage & 
oversee modules
Research & tracking team 
(shared)
Refinement of Initiative based on 
learning/best practices
Continued outreach and 
database enrichment
Programmatic rollout on min. 
60% of database; improved 
impact vs. 2016-17 period
Minimum 50% reduction in intra-
ethnic gap in literacy, numeracy, 
UPSR, SPM & drop-out rates vs. 
2016 baseline
Service providers/NGOs 
(help to scale)
MOE, MOWFCD and associated 
agencies
Donors; PPP partners
Refinement of Initiative based on 
learning/best practices
Continued outreach and 
database enrichment
Programmatic rollout on 100% 
of database; improved impact vs. 
2018-2020 period
No significant intra-ethnic & 
intra-ethnic gap (below 5%) in 
literacy, numeracy, UPSR, SPM & 
drop-out rates vs. 2016 baseline
Committed Government funding 
until 2020; 2021-2025 funding 
to be reviewed
Additional supported by PPP
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
Milestones / Targets
Resources
2016-2017
People
2018-2020
Partners & Stakeholders
2021-2025
Funding
IB40 Educational Performance Initiative
(Illustration)
CHAPTER 3
62
Realising Each Child’s Potential
<<<PAGE 65>>>
T o implement the IB40 Educational Performance Initiative 
and other education-related programs, resources that are 
currently deployed on education matters within PTST and 
SEDIC are to be consolidated and strengthened into an 
Education T eam within a cohesive MIB Implementation 
Unit.
140 The core mandate of the Education T eam is to 
address the educational performance gaps of Indian 
students, particularly from IB40 households.
Streamline units, initiatives & budgets 
under the CCIC related to education
Establish Joint CCIC-MOE Taskforce on Education
2.
3.
A Joint Taskforce comprising senior officials from the MOE, the MIB Implementation team, and other relevant Government 
agencies, and reporting to the CCIC, is proposed to be established. The Joint Taskforce would meet regularly to resolve 
implementation issues and to track progress on indicators related to Indian educational attainment.
In the case of IB40 educational performance in particular , the proposed Joint Taskforce would develop a module to train 
and provide on-going support to teachers in both SRKs and SJKTs to address the challenges and needs of underperforming 
B40 children in general and IB40 children in particular . The Joint Taskforce would also explore the assignment of Indian 
teaching assistants and/or counsellors for language and cultural support to assist teachers with underperforming IB40 
students.
More details on the MIB Implementation entity are in the Implementation Chapter140
Malaysian Indian Blueprint 2017
63
<<<PAGE 66>>>
Bumiputera children Chinese children Indian children
92% 5% 3%
SJKT LADANG SAGGA, NEGERI SEMBILAN
Stimulus package of RM 4.33 Million for the construction of a 
new school building and a computer lab, completed in 2016.
B. Early Education
Several studies have shown the vital importance of early education and childcare in setting 
up a child for educational success and beyond. Positive effects are found on children’s 
development in language, literacy, and early math skills; in social and emotional readiness; 
and in the propensity of staying on track and staying engaged in the early school grades.
141  
High-quality early learning programs can help level the playing field for children from lower-
income backgrounds. For IB40 children in particular , the lack of early education means 
that they are doubly disadvantaged when they enter Sekolah Kebangsaan due to language 
issues.
142
Jabatan Kemajuan Masyarakat (KEMAS) is a unit under the Ministry of Rural and 
Regional Development tasked with improving the livelihoods of people in rural 
areas. 
“Enrolment Data by Ethnicity and by Level Of Education”, Ministry of Education 
Malaysia
“Enrolment Data by Ethnicity and by Level Of Education”, Ministry of Education 
Malaysia
Yoshikawa, H; Weiland, C; Brooks-Gunn, J; Burchinal, MR; Espinosa, LM; Gormley, 
WT;... Zaslow, MJ (2013) Investing in Our Future:  The Evidence Base On Preschool 
Education Ann Arbor: SRCD
Interviews with PTST & SEDIC
Action Plan for the Future of Tamil Schools Unit (PTST) 2014.
Malaysian Education Blueprint 2013-2025
141
142
143
144
145
146
147
Of those enrolled in preschool, most are deduced to be 
attending privately run preschools, or preschools run by various 
other agencies such as KEMAS
145 etc., as only an estimated 10% 
of Indian preschool-aged children attend MOE-run preschools.  
146 Viewing across the board, Malaysian Indian children make up 
only 3% of the total enrolment in MOE-run preschools while 
5% are Chinese and 92% are Bumiputera.
147
An estimated 55% of Indian children aged 5-6 
attend preschool,
143 a significant gap relative 
to the 100% early education enrolment goal 
stated in the MEB.
144
T otal percentage of 
enrolment in MOE-run 
preschools
CHAPTER 3
64
Realising Each Child’s Potential
<<<PAGE 67>>>
SJKT MASAI, JOHOR
Special funding from YAB PM of RM 2 Million for
a new school block completed in 2015.
Government agencies that run preschools include KEMAS, PERPADUAN, PASTI, 
JPNIN etc.
“Tadika Pilihan Untuk Anak” (2015, November 13) irrayyan.com. Accessed at: 
http://www.irrayyan.com/2015/11/tadika-pilihan-untuk-anak.html# 
Mustafa, Lily Muliana & Azman, Mohamed Nor Azhari (2013) “Preschool Education 
in Malaysia: Emerging T rends and Implications for the Future” American Journal of 
Economics 3(6), pp. 347-351
Interviews with Prof. Datuk Dr . NS Rajendran (PTST & SEDIC)148
149
150
151
Key Issues & Current Interventions
It can be inferred from these statistics that the rate of preschool enrolment amongst 
approximately 26,000 Indian 5- and 6-year-olds from IB40 households is significantly 
lower than 55%. Many IB40 parents may not have the means to send their children to 
nearby preschools, assuming that there are affordable or subsidised preschools nearby. 
According to lay accounts, tuition fees for preschools run by the MOE and other Government 
agencies
148  can range between RM10 to RM180 per month.149 This does not include the one-
off registration fee, which ranges between RM100 to RM900. Private preschools on the other 
hand may charge anything between RM10 to RM1,000 or more per month.
150
In addition to tuition fees, ancillary costs such as transport, safety concerns, and other factors prohibit preschool enrolment 
amongst the IB40. The situation is not improved by the fact that a significant proportion of IB40 households are not aware 
of or do not register for welfare assistance, which covers expenses related to early education.
Apart from the issue of means, the issue of supply and access is also significant. Not all SRKs and SJKTs have preschools 
or preschool facilities on the premises. Standalone nurseries and preschools are few in areas with high densities of B40 
communities, though at any rate, for safety and convenience IB40 parents prefer to send their children to preschools 
contained within school compounds.
151
Malaysian Indian Blueprint 2017
65
<<<PAGE 68>>>
SJKT PAYA BESAR, KEDAH
Government allocation of RM 9 Million for the construction of a 
new SJKT . 
The supply of appropriately trained preschool teachers, particularly in SJKTs, is also an important issue 152. In 2016, 
approximately 60% of the teachers in SJKT preschools have degree-equivalent qualifications. Qualified preschool teachers 
with the proficiency to teach in Tamil or other Indian vernacular languages, and to bridge the gap between the mother 
tongue with Bahasa Melayu and English, are limited.
153
The Government has been carrying out several measures to improve preschool access and enrolment as per the ‘Perluasan 
Prasekolah’ initiative pledged in the 10th and 11th Malaysia Plan as well as the MEB. The number of Government-run 
preschool classes has progressively increased to nearly 43,000 classes, supplemented with another 1,700 classes established 
and run by the private sector via a Private Preschool launching grant.
154  Teacher training and a system of inspections have 
been established and strengthened. To assist low-income households, preschool fee assistance of up to RM150 per month 
is offered to qualifying families.
155
SEDIC has been supplementing Government efforts by providing grants to qualifying NGOs to establish preschools in SJKTs 
as well as to send SJKT preschool teachers for relevant training programs. These efforts have resulted in faster establishment 
of preschools, although coverage is still limited currently to 7,550 children from mainly IB40 households.
More can be done on both fronts. Closer collaboration between the MOE, PTST and SEDIC is needed to ensure that sufficient 
preschool classes are established in areas with high densities of IB40 and B40 households, whether in SRKs or SJKTs. Closer 
collaboration is also needed to ensure that all SEDIC-assisted preschools in SJKTs are formally recognised and integrated 
into the fold of MOE-endorsed preschools, accompanied with MOE oversight and continuous teacher improvement.
Efforts should continue to increase the supply of trained preschool teachers in SJKTs as well as Malaysian Indian preschool 
teachers in SRKs and other Government-run preschools. Finally, the design and outreach of financial assistance programs 
can be improved to ensure that all qualifying IB40 households receive sufficient support for preschool enrolment and 
attendance.
Interviews with Prof. Datuk Dr . NS Rajendran (PTST & SEDIC) 
Rajendran, NS (2016) “Status of Tamil School Education in Malaysia and Future 
Prospects” in Denison, J & Nathan, KS (Eds.) Contemporary Malaysian Indians, 
Bangi: KITA, pp. 387-407
“Malaysia Education Blueprint Annual Report 2014” Ministry of Education Malaysia
“Ringkasan Garis Panduan Permohonan Bantuan Yuran Murid Prasekolah Swasta/ 
Pusat Pendidikan Khas (Pindaan 2015)”, Ministry of Education Malaysia
152
153
154
155
CHAPTER 3
66
Realising Each Child’s Potential
<<<PAGE 69>>>
Moving Forward: Recommendations and Initiatives
T o ensure that all Malaysian 
Indian children of preschool-
going age receive early 
education, in line with the 
Government’s aim of 100% 
preschool enrolment, this 
Blueprint aims to achieve the 
following targets:
Ensure Malaysian Indian children aged 4 to 6 years, regardless of income 
and documentation status, receive childcare or early education156
Ensure all SJKTs identified as ‘preschool feasible’ have established 
preschools with sufficient class sizes within 5 years of MIB implementation 
Ensure all Indian-vernacular preschools, i.e. preschools established in 
SJKTs, temples or private grounds, are staffed by teachers with sufficient 
preschool qualifications or training 
•
•
•
In the case of early education, the Joint Taskforce resolves implementation issues related to supply of preschools in SRKs 
and SJKTs, as well as issues regarding recognition and oversight of NGO-run schools in SJKTs and teacher training, amongst 
others.
The MIB notes that the aim of universal pre-school enrolment by 2020, in line with the Malaysian Education Blueprint, is 
an ambitious one particularly for IB40 children. The target would need to be supported by strong cooperation amongst 
members of this Taskforce, sufficient resources and the participation of private sector partnerships.
T o deliver on these targets, this Blueprint aims to effect the following:
Establish Joint CCIC-MOE Taskforce on Education (as mentioned in Section A)1. 
In line with the Malaysian Education Blueprint which aims to ensure 100% pre-
school enrolment by 2020
156
Malaysian Indian Blueprint 2017
67
<<<PAGE 70>>>
SJKT PERSIARAN RAJA MUDA MUSA, SELANGOR
Special funding from YAB PM of RM 1.2 Million for a new 
5-storey school block. 
In the case of early education, the streamlined Education 
T eam within the MIB Implementation Unit will continue 
to support broader Government efforts by establishing 
preschools in SJKTs and appropriate community spaces as 
well as closing the qualification gap amongst SJKT preschool 
teachers.  Programs and resources from previously separate 
units under the CCIC will be consolidated and reviewed. 
Supplementary funding from private sector partnerships 
will also be explored. 
Assistance will be provided in identifying and registering 
IB40 households with the MOE, eKasih and the Department 
of Social Welfare in order to receive assistance related to 
early education and its ancillary costs. The Education T eam 
may also complement current Government schemes with 
temporary, specific assistance e.g. tuition fee vouchers 
for private preschools if there are no government-run or 
government-subsidised preschools nearby.
Streamline units, initiatives & budgets under the CCIC related to education
(as mentioned in Section A)
2. 
CHAPTER 3
68
Realising Each Child’s Potential
<<<PAGE 71>>>
SJKT REGENT, NEGERI SEMBILAN
Stimulus package of RM 8.55 Million for the relocation and 
construction of a new school building and a field. 
C. Tamil Primary Schools (SJKTs)
Historically, Tamil primary schools in Malaysia were established by British plantation owners 
to fulfil the educational requirements of the mostly Tamil estate workers. Infrastructure 
was very basic and teachers were employed from amongst the Tamil-literate inhabitants 
or recruited from India.
157 T oday, Tamil primary schools or SJKTs are seen as an important 
institution to preserve the Tamil language and cultural heritage, particularly amongst the 
IB40. A large-scale survey of IB40 respondents revealed that 79% prefer SJKTs to other 
school types, the majority of which citing culture and language as the reason.
158 Tamil 
language has been and continues to be the medium of instruction in SJKTs for all subjects 
except Bahasa Melayu and English.
Moorthy, Ravichandran (2016) “Ethnic Indians in Malaysia: History and Issues of 
Development” in Denison, J & Nathan, KS (Eds.) Contemporary Malaysian Indians, 
Bangi: KITA, pp. 39-56.
Face-to-face survey of 2,087 Malaysian Indians in B40 households throughout 
Peninsular Malaysia conducted in July to September 2016. MIB Secretariat
PTST , Government-aided schools are schools which are partly financed by the 
Government (via grants) with the remaining funds financed by alternative sources
“Malaysia Educational Statistics 2015”, Ministry of Education Malaysia
2000 data extracted from Malaysia Education Blueprint 2013-2025. 2015 data 
calculated based on Pelan Tindakan Masa Depan Sekolah-sekolah Tamil and 
“Enrolment Statistics of Indian Children in MOE-registered Schools 2014” provided 
by the Ministry of Education
157
158
159
160
161
As of 2014, there are a total of 155 Government SJKTs 
and 368 Government-aided SJKTs. 159  Over 70% of the 
schools are located in rural areas. 160  With increasing urban 
migration and a generational movement away from the 
plantation sector , there has been an increase in demand for 
SJKTs particularly in suburban areas with high densities of 
Malaysian Indian households.
The relative popularity of SJKTs have increased: 
in 2015, an estimated 55% of primary school-
going Indian children (85,473 students) went to 
SJKTs compared to 47% in 2000. 
161
Malaysian Indian Blueprint 2017
69
<<<PAGE 72>>>
SJKT SIMPANG LIMA, SELANGOR
The Community Chest (TCC) funding of RM 6 Million for the 
construction of three 4-storey blocks and other facilities. 
SJKT DENGKIL, SELANGOR
Special funding from YAB PM of RM 330,000 for a new school 
block and a science lab. 
PTST
“UPSR Achievements of National Level and Indian Ethnic Group”, Ministry of 
Education Malaysia
“Gred Purata Nasional” (GPN) is the weighted average of scores achieved by 
students across all schools in a particular examination. A GPN score ranges from 1 
to 5, with 1 indicating a perfect score. The widening gap was estimated to be caused 
by a drastic change in the UPSR examination format, inadequate preparedness 
of teachers and students in tackling higher-order thinking (HOT) items as well as 
a more stringent marking scheme. Source: PTST dialogue with teachers and the 
Director of the Examination Syndicate, Ministry of Education, Malaysia. 
162
163
164
Compared to past decades, the performance of SJKT students has shown improvement although it is still below the national 
average: in 2015 only 47% of SJKT students passed all subjects in the UPSR examinations 162 compared to the national 
average of 66%. 163 Nevertheless, the relative performance of those who passed has improved - the gap in “Gred Purata 
Nasional” (GPN) between SJKTs and the national average for UPSR dropped from 0.27 points in 2010 to 0.07 points in 2014 
though the gap widened again in  2015 to 0.25 points
164.
CHAPTER 3
70
Realising Each Child’s Potential
<<<PAGE 73>>>
Despite the relative underperformance, there 
are indications that Malaysian Indian students 
from SJKTs may perform better along other 
educational parameters. SJKT experts have 
observed that dropout rates are lower amongst 
SJKT Indian students compared to Indian 
students from SRKs. In addition, Indian students 
coming from SJKTs have been observed to be 
more likely to complete Form 5 than their Indian 
counterparts from SRKs.
166
Analysis of UPSR achievements. Source: PTST and Examination Syndicate, Ministry 
of Education. 
Observations from representatives of 323 NGOs who participated in 26 town hall 
meetings with PTST . Source: PTST Report, 2014.
165 166
Performance in Mathematics is consistently high. However , performance in Science and especially languages (apart from 
Tamil) are somewhat inconsistent as shown in the table below. 165  Much more work needs to be done on improving these 
scores. Underperformance in Bahasa Melayu and English contributes to problems in transitioning and mainstreaming 
into Bahasa Melayu-medium national secondary schools, which may not be entirely resolved by the currently mandated 
remedial Remove Classes (“Kelas Peralihan”).
Malaysian Indian Blueprint 2017
71
<<<PAGE 74>>>
PTST
PTST
“Malaysian Indians and the New Economic Model”, Institute of Ethnic Studies 
(KITA), University Kebangsaan Malaysia (UKM)
PTST
There is a shortage of 585 Bahasa Melayu teachers and 374 English teachers in 
SJKTs. Source: PTST Report, 2014
167
168
169
170
171
Key Issues & Current Interventions
SJKT Teachers Qualification
PhD Masters Degree STPM/
Diploma
SPM
0.03% 2.54% 42.56% 16.24% 38.63%
One of the biggest issues faced by SJKTs is poor infrastructure. In recent years, significant 
improvements have been made on this front. Acknowledging the poor condition of the 
schools, the Government has made a commitment to enhance the state of SJKT classrooms 
and facilities by allocating approximately RM800 million since 2009.
167 The Government 
has also established a unit within the Prime Minister’s Department, PTST , in 2012 to ensure 
delivery of this commitment particularly amongst Government-aided schools.
Approximately 346 schools have been upgraded since 2009.168 However , an estimated 140 more are still in poor condition.169 
Less than 40% of SJKTs have computer labs, which is needed for full implementation of the national curriculum. Closer 
inter-agency collaboration and accountability is needed to overcome organisational inertia and ensure that fully-funded 
SJKTs are receiving the upgrading works required. For Government-aided SJKTs, more accountability and transparency by 
the school boards is needed to curb delays due to disputes within governing bodies as well as costing discrepancies.  
Another significant issue related to SJKTs is the capacity of teachers. Only 45% of SJKT teachers have a Bachelors degree 
and above; the majority of the remainder have SPM as their highest qualification.
170 Apart from formal qualifications, 
field workers have observed that there is a lack of soft skills among teachers particularly in handling underperforming or 
problematic students, although this problem is not limited to SJKTs. There is also a shortage of teachers who are fluent in 
Tamil and who are able to teach Bahasa Melayu and English, something that is important for bridging gaps in translation 
and comprehension between the languages.
171
CHAPTER 3
72
Realising Each Child’s Potential
<<<PAGE 75>>>
 Interviews with PTST , SEDIC, and various NGOs.
The Dual Language Program gives qualifying schools the option to teach STEM 
subjects in English. Source: MOE
Carried out by Hindu Youth Organization (HYO) in partnership with the Malaysian 
Community & Education Foundation and supported by the Government of Malaysia.
 PTST
172
173
174
175
Adequate preparation of students for mainstreaming into Bahasa Melayu-medium secondary schools is also an issue for 
SJKTs. Students who are not sufficiently conversant in Bahasa Melayu will not only fall behind in their grasp of subjects, 
they will also lose confidence and fail to integrate socially with their non-Tamil-speaking peers.
172
T o assist such students, the Government via the MEB 2013-2025 has introduced a standard Bahasa Melayu curriculum 
at the primary level with intensive support for struggling students in Years 4 to 6. Students at SJKTs who are struggling 
to cope will receive remedial after-school Bahasa Melayu classes. T o further improve proficiency in English, the MOE has 
introduced the Dual Language Program in the teaching of Science, T echnology, Engineering and Mathematics (STEM)
173. In 
supplementing these efforts, SEDIC has also funded Bahasa Melayu and English immersion camps for identified students. 
These efforts should continue and be further refined to ensure not only pass rates in examinations but more importantly, 
genuine proficiency.
In line with the MEB, the Government has instituted a 
program of continuous professional development for 
teachers. PTST and SEDIC have supplemented these efforts 
by expediting the training of teachers in targeted subjects 
and working with the MOE to train and redesignate non-
language teachers to become multi-subject teachers (“Guru 
Opsyen”). The rollout of such training needs to continue to 
be expedited in order to overcome the stated shortages. 
Also, as mentioned in the IB40 section, schools and teachers 
should be equipped, sensitised and trained to address needs 
of underperforming children from underprivileged homes, 
including those attending SJKTs.
Information and communication technology (ICT) literacy 
is critical to build a knowledge economy and efforts should 
also be made to ensure that SJKT students are not left 
behind on this score. An exemplary initiative to improve 
ICT literacy amongst SJKT children is the Program Titian 
Digital
174. Currently, 58 Government-aided Tamil schools 
are participating in this program that helps to equip schools 
with ICT labs and trains students in ICT literacy.
Finally, a significant proportion of SJKTs in certain locations 
face the issue of under-enrolment. The migration of the 
Indian community to urban areas has left many SJKTs in 
rural and estate areas with very few students (“Sekolah 
Kurang Murid”). Out of 523 SJKTs in Malaysia, 322 or 62% 
have fewer than 150 students. Of these, nearly half or 158 
schools have fewer than 50 students.
175
Malaysian Indian Blueprint 2017
73
<<<PAGE 76>>>
Maintaining quality in under-enrolled schools is a challenge. Due to the relatively remote locations it is difficult to attract and 
retain sufficient numbers of high-performing teachers and principals or to provide comprehensive co-curriculum offerings 
and facilities. This affects student attendance as well as educational outcomes.
At the same time, moving or merging under-enrolled schools is challenging and complex. Due to the locations and distances 
involved, many households would not be able to afford the cost of travelling to the new replacement schools. Most families 
would also prefer the school to remain in their locality so that their young children can be close to home, even if the school 
is under-enrolled.
176
Relocating under-enrolled schools requires a case-by-case approach. In line with this, SEDIC has funded an NGO 177 to 
engage the community and manage the relocation of 22 under-enrolled SJKTs. This initiative involves extensive discussion 
with the families affected and careful selection of a feasible new school location. This effort should be expanded to cover 
more schools where relocation is a workable option based on the distances involved. For schools where relocation is not as 
feasible for those affected, more effort should be made to integrate online learning platforms provided by the MOE and to 
tailor online content for SJKTs
178.
From interviews with SEDIC and PTST; Malaysia Education Blueprint 2013-2025.
Pertubuhan Pembangunan dan Kemajuan Sekolah Tamil Malaysia (PPST)
In the 11th Malaysia Plan, the Government plans to strengthen online learning 
in all schools. A digital content development roadmap will be formed to digitise 
preschool to secondary school education curriculum, towards enabling virtual and 
interactive learning. 
176
177
178
Tamil Primary Schools,
“No. of Students in U-ETS” Table
CHAPTER 3
74
Realising Each Child’s Potential
<<<PAGE 77>>>
Moving Forward: Recommendations and Initiatives
In response to demand from the Malaysian Indian community, the Government approved the 
establishment of 6 additional fully-funded SJKTs in 2012, to be located in areas with high 
concentrations of Indians. While the Government favours modes of instruction that promote 
the highest levels of learning, this must be balanced with the interests of social integration 
and national identity. Therefore, this Blueprint is in favour of continuing the approach of new 
SJKT approval on a case-by-case basis, based on a needs assessment of the local community 
as well as taking into consideration alternative approaches such as strengthening mother 
tongue instruction in national schools.
The focus of this Blueprint is on efforts to close performance gaps in existing SJKTs and to 
assist students in transitioning to a Bahasa Melayu-medium secondary school environment. 
In line with this, this Blueprint aims to achieve the following targets for SJKTs:
Ensure performance gaps of SJKT vs. SRK and SJKC 
in literacy, numeracy and UPSR subject pass rates are 
closed within 10 years of MIB implementation 
Ensure all SJKT teachers and head teachers show 
improvement in performance through a systematic 
professional development program and a clear career 
pathway
Ensure all SJKTs achieve minimum standards in 
infrastructure, staffing, and other key indicators of school 
quality within 10 years of MIB implementation 
Ensure all SJKT children exhibit language proficiency 
and are fully prepared for mainstreaming, none needing 
to attend Remove Classes within 5 years of MIB 
implementation 
•
•
•
•
T o deliver on these targets, this Blueprint aims to effect the following:
The SJKT Action Plan, published by PTST in 2014, comprises extensive measures to ensure SJKT classrooms and facilities 
are upgraded; teacher qualifications and capabilities are increased; students are prepared for mainstreaming; and under-
enrolled schools are relocated or otherwise strengthened.
Effective implementation of the SJKT Action Plan will be monitored throughout the Blueprint period.
The SJKT Action Plan1. 
Malaysian Indian Blueprint 2017
75
<<<PAGE 78>>>
OVERVIEW OF TAMIL SCHOOL ACTION PLAN
Key Actions
Every Tamil school pupil should 
be provided with the opportunity 
to attend preschool
All Tamil school must be 
equipped with necessary facilities 
to create conducive learning 
environment
Every Tamil school teacher to 
be professionally trained and 
given opportunity for continuous 
professional development
Every student must acquire the 
3Rs skills (Reading, Writing 
& Arithmetic) and other skills 
critical for 21
st century
Align SJKT curriculum with 
National Education Philosophy, 
Curriculum & International 
Educational Standard
All Tamil schools to have high 
quality principal and supporting 
leadership team to drive overall 
school performance
All Tamil school leadership to 
form strategic partnerships with 
parents, PTA, NGOs, LPS, private 
sector and etc.
Every Malaysian child deserves 
an equal access to education of 
their choice (in the case of under-
enrolled schools)
T o engage with various 
stakeholders to develop a 
sustainable funding model for 
Tamil schools
Establish preschool in all SJKTs
All SJKTs with complete preschool facilities
Recruit teacher aides proficient in Tamil 
language
Ensure complete facilities, e.g library, science 
lab, computer lab, music rooms, sports 
equipment and etc.
Repair and upgrade facilities required swiftly
Assign teachers to professional training 
& encourage continuous professional 
development
Increase supply of Tamil-speaking teachers
Ensure special remedial classes made 
compulsory starting Year 4
Include Tamil language in LINUS Program
Inculcate entrepreneurship skills
T rain teachers to teach effectively
Place qualified sport teachers
Increase ICT-based teaching
Plan and execute the HOTS learning
Provide adequate monitoring and support 
personnel to ensure quality content delivery
HMs to attend leadership, management, 
community engagement & financial courses
HMs with NPQEL qualification
Establish development and monitoring 
committee with parents’s participation
Partner with parents, NGOs and temples
Ongoing dialogue session
MOE expedites the relocation of SJKTs
Conversion of government aided SJKTs to 
government SJKTs.
Set up trust fund to support SJKTs
Establish state government special fund for 
development of SJKTs
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
Preschool
Infrastructure
Teachers
Students and 
Achievements
Curriculum
Leadership
Parents and 
Community
Relocation
(with agreement of 
stakeholders)
Revolving 
Funds & 
Others
Themes Goals
CHAPTER 3
76
Realising Each Child’s Potential
<<<PAGE 79>>>
More community involvement, whether direct (e.g. involvement in school operations) or indirect (public scrutiny) can help 
to increase the speed of implementation. In terms of direct involvement, this Blueprint proposes to establish a Tamil School 
Development Advisory Board within the ambit of the streamlined Education T eam of the MIB Implementation Unit. The 
Board shall plan and assist in evaluating the long-term development of SJKTs.
This Blueprint also proposes to set up more private sector partnerships to improve SJKT facilities, to upskill SJKT teachers, 
and to improve language, numeracy and ICT proficiency amongst SJKT students. For targeted SJKTs, including under-
enrolled SJKTs, this Blueprint proposes to explore implementing the T rust School model
179 to bring about rapid or wide-
ranging performance turnaround.
In terms of indirect community participation, this Blueprint proposes to publish a league table of SJKTs that rates SJKT 
performance in all key indicators of school quality relative to minimum standards. Schools would be encouraged to publish 
their individual improvement plans, inviting parents’ and local communities’ participation and feedback.
A Malaysian T rust School exemplar is the partnership between the MOE and 
Yayasan Amir . Under this arrangement, Yayasan Amir supports MOE in selected 
areas including pedagogy and performance tracking amongst others
179
Increase community participation to help close gaps2. 
Malaysian Indian Blueprint 2017
77
<<<PAGE 80>>>
D. Indian Children & Youth in Primary & Secondary National Schools
An estimated 38% of Indian primary-school-going aged children are enrolled in national 
primary schools while approximately 80% of Indian secondary-school-going aged youth are 
enrolled in national secondary schools.
180 Judging from 2015 data obtained on overall Indian 
students’ pass rates in UPSR (54%) vs. SJKT students’ pass rates (47%), it can be inferred 
that Indian students in SRKs pulled up the overall pass rate by performing better than their 
counterparts in SJKT . However , overall performance deteriorates in secondary school. As 
mentioned in the ‘IB40 Children and Youth’ section, in 2015 only 44% of Indian students 
passed all subjects in the SPM examinations compared to the national average of 55%. It is 
possible that students from SJKTs are disproportionately contributing to the low pass rate 
due to problems transitioning to the Bahasa Melayu-medium environment, although this 
would not sufficiently explain the much lower overall SPM performance relative to UPSR. Of 
those who do pass SPM, it has been observed that they do not receive as much support and 
guidance on further education options compared to their peers.
181
Estimates based on census data and “Enrolment Statistics of Indian Children in 
MOE-registered Schools 2014” provided by the Ministry of Education.
Interviews with various stakeholders from government agencies and NGOs180 181
Apart from household economic status 
(addressed in the ‘IB40 Children and 
Youth’ section above) as well as the 
related effect of gangs and at-risk 
youth culture (addressed in the ‘At-Risk 
Children & Youth’ section below), the 
underperformance of Indian students in 
national schools points to the possibility 
of ethnicity-related challenges. 
44%
Indian 
StudentsSRK 
Schools
All 
Students
SJKT
Schools
54% 55%47%
CHAPTER 3
78
Realising Each Child’s Potential
<<<PAGE 81>>>
Malaysia Education Blueprint Annual Report 2014
A related issue is the capacity of teachers and schools to tackle the needs of 
underperforming and problematic students, many of whom are from low-income 
households. This was addressed in the ‘IB40 Children and Youth’ section above
Interviews with various stakeholders, the Government, and NGOs. Further reference 
on peer-to-peer racial bias: Mohamad Salleh, Norshidah & Zainal, Khalim (2014) 
“Bullying Among Secondary School Students in Malaysia: A Case Study”, Interna-
tional Education Studies Vol. 7 No. 13, pp. 184-191
183
184
182
Key Issues & Current Interventions
One ethnicity-related challenge is bias. Ethnic (and gender) bias in education is part of 
the human condition; research has shown that uneven treatment by teachers particularly 
towards minority students is a prevalent occurrence in many countries, even among the most 
culturally aware teachers. Uneven treatment may be meted out in a range of areas, from 
expectations of a student’s performance, to time and energy invested, to reprimands and 
punishments.
The pilot survey showed that the highest score amongst teachers was for ‘managing diversity’ while the lowest score was 
for ‘accepting diversity’.  Amongst students, the highest score was for ‘respecting diversity’ while the lowest score was for 
‘accepting diversity’.183 Clearly, efforts need to be made to understand the dynamics behind these scores towards improving 
acceptance.
Such acceptance may be improved if Indian educational performance were reframed as a national issue. Not only is Indian 
educational performance important for upholding the principle of fairness in education, it is also vital for reducing the 
societal costs of Indian low-skilled employment, societal marginalisation and crime. The right approach to improving 
awareness and sensitisation amongst schools, teachers, officials, and other stakeholders is much needed.
184
While ethnic bias in national school 
classrooms is observed and privately 
acknowledged,
182 it is rarely recognised 
publicly. As a result, the problem is not 
sufficiently explored and resolved. Further , 
solutions proposed tend to be race-centric 
or duplicative workarounds – for example, 
having more race-centric institutions - in 
order to evade the crux of the matter .
The MOE has taken preliminary steps towards 
measuring the problem of bias through the 
lens of diversity and unity. A ‘Unity Index’ 
was established to measure the acceptance, 
respect, and management of diversity within 
schools. 
Malaysian Indian Blueprint 2017
79
<<<PAGE 82>>>
Another ethnicity-related challenge is the quality of integration into a more multi-ethnic environment at secondary level, 
particularly for students from SJKTs. Apart from coping with a new language of instruction, they must also adjust to a new 
cultural landscape. Those who must attend Remove Class (“Kelas Peralihan”) are in even greater risk of becoming isolated 
as they are often judged and sidelined by their teachers and peers.
185 62% of parents with children in SJKTs say that remove 
classes should not be continued.186
The MOE has intensified the implementation of RIMUP (“Rancangan Integrasi Murid Untuk Perpaduan”) to improve inter-
ethnic interaction not only across different school types but also within schools. School inspections have shown that over 
70% of schools have undertaken various integrative practices such as mixed seating arrangements and mixed teaming 
during co-curricular activities.
187 Parents of various ethnicities are naturally encouraged to interact during such activities. 
Such efforts should be continued, with greater targeting to help students who are struggling in a multi-ethnic environment.
The lack of diversity amongst teaching and school 
administration staff also contributes to the problem. 
According to the MEB, the teacher population in national 
schools is becoming less diverse and less representative of 
the national population.
 188
In 2011, only 5% of teachers in national schools 
were Indians, while 81% were Bumiputera and 
14% were Chinese.
189 Ethnic diversity amongst 
teachers should be improved particularly in 
more diverse urban localities.
Percentage of Teachers by Race
Nagappan, R; Maniam, M; Periasamy, S; Rao, R; Devarajoo, K & Velu, J (2012) 
Exploring Remove Classes in Malaysia; A Study to Evaluate Their Effectiveness 
Kuala Lumpur: EWRF
Face-to-face survey of 2,087 Malaysian Indians in B40 households throughout 
Peninsular Malaysia conducted in July to September 2016. MIB Secretariat
Malaysia Education Blueprint Annual Report 2014
Malaysia Education Blueprint 2013-2025
Malaysia Education Blueprint 2013-2025.
185
186
187
188
189
CHAPTER 3
80
Realising Each Child’s Potential
<<<PAGE 83>>>
Moving Forward: Recommendations and Initiatives
T o close inter-ethnic gaps in educational 
attainment within national schools, this 
Blueprint aims to achieve the following 
targets:
Ensure performance gaps in literacy, numeracy and 
UPSR amongst Indian students in SRKs vs. their peers 
in SRK, SJKT and SJKC are closed within 10 years of MIB 
implementation 
Ensure performance gaps in PT3 and SPM of Indian 
students vs. their peers are closed within 10 years of MIB 
implementation
Ensure Indian children and families receive early guidance 
on post-PT3 or post-secondary educational, training, 
apprenticeship and employment options
•
•
•
T o deliver on these targets, this Blueprint aims to effect the following:
The mandate of the Initiative is to cover Indian students in 
both vernacular and national schools. This ensures that the 
performance of Indian students in national schools is also 
monitored and identified for targeted assistance.
In the case of national schools, The Joint Taskforce monitors 
and targets national schools for interventions based on a 
league table of inter-ethnic educational performance gaps as 
well as the unity index. This includes development, piloting, 
and rollout of modules designed to sensitise teachers 
and school leadership. Schools that excel in inter-ethnic 
relations and educational attainment are showcased and 
recognised, including schools that have shown significant 
improvement in these areas. 
The MIB Implementation Unit, together with Joint Taskforce 
will also explore increasing investment and support for Tamil 
language and cultural education in a new and improved 
People’s Own Language program, ‘POL2.0’. Such a move 
would encourage more Malaysian Indian parents to consider 
national schools as a school of choice for their children.
As mentioned in Section A (‘IB40 Children and Youth’), the 
Joint Taskforce would also explore the assignment of Indian 
teaching assistants and/or counsellors for language and 
cultural support to assist teachers with underperforming 
Indian and/or IB40 students.
Establish IB40 Educational Performance 
Initiative (as mentioned in Section A)
Establish Joint CCIC-MOE Taskforce on 
Education (as mentioned in Section A)
1. 2. 
Malaysian Indian Blueprint 2017
81
<<<PAGE 84>>>
E. Tertiary Education & Training
In recent years, serious efforts have been made to ensure proportionate Indian enrolment 
in institutions of higher education. Annual seat allocations and targets for Malaysian Indian 
students have been set in Government skills training institutes, matriculation colleges, 
polytechnics, and universities. Scholarships, cash grants and study loans have been awarded 
via both Government bursaries as well as private foundations.
ACADEMIC ENROLMENT
YEAR 2014/2015
Bumiputera
Chinese
Indian
Others
TOTAL
NO. OF
APPLICANTS
54,702
10,018
3,363
5,988
74,071
% OF
TOTAL
73.9%
13.5%
4.5%
8. 1%
100%
NO. OF QUALIFIED 
APPLICANTS
50,022
9,357
2,666
5,343
67,388
NO. OF SUCCESSFUL 
APPLICANTS
26,039
6,620
1,533
3,275
37,467
Data extracted and tabulated based on “Enrolment Statistics of Indian Applicants 
Into IPTA/IPTS 2014”, Ministry of Higher Education
Based on interviews however , the most common reasons for qualified applicants 
not to enter the IPTA is the applicant’s selectiveness in course and location of IPTA 
offered
Data extracted and tabulated based on “Enrolment Statistics of Indian Applicants 
Into IPTA/IPTS 2014” provided by the Ministry of Higher Education.
190
191
192
Except for skills training institutes however , filling up seat allocations for Indian students in other types of higher education 
institutions is a challenge. In terms of applications for public institutions of higher education (IPTA), the latest data (2014) 
shows that Indians represent only 4.5% of the total number of applicants.
190 This is foreseeable considering that the percentage 
of Indian students who pass all subjects in the SPM examinations is much lower than the national average; for example, in that 
same year only 46% of Malaysian Indian students passed all subjects compared to the national average of 56%. 
Of those who apply, only 79% qualify or fulfil the IPTA 
requirements compared to 91% of Bumiputera applicants 
and 93% of Chinese applicants. Further , only 58% of 
qualified Indian applicants were successful at entering the 
IPTA - better than qualified Bumiputera applicants (52%) 
but worse than qualified Chinese applicants (71%).
191
On the other hand, approximately 50,000 Indian students 
continued their further education in private institutions of 
higher learning in 2014 though this is likely predominantly 
represented by students from middle or high-income 
households.
192
CHAPTER 3
82
Realising Each Child’s Potential
<<<PAGE 85>>>
Malaysian Indians & The 11th Malaysia Plan (2016-2020), “Tapping the 
Opportunities & Plugging in” by Datuk Dr . Denison Jayasooria
193
Key Issues & Current Interventions
The relatively low rates in applying and qualifying for IPTAs corroborate the fact of 
underperformance among Indian students at secondary level and even primary level. 
Improving Indian performance at these levels will help towards improving enrolment levels 
at tertiary level.
Apart from performance in examinations, students and parents will also need to be guided on higher education options and 
the procedures involved as early as is feasible. Many secondary school Indian students do not know where to go or what to 
pursue after they leave secondary school and many from IB40 households in particular do not have the benefit of parental 
or community guidance on this score.
193 T o address this, SEDIC has funded several information dissemination and guidance 
initiatives to support students in preparing their tertiary level applications; these efforts should continue.
Malaysian Indian Blueprint 2017
83
<<<PAGE 86>>>
The low rates in applying for IPTA places could also be 
due to a combination of low educational performance and 
financial constraints. Many students who perform at a low-
to-middling level do not proceed to higher education in 
favour of working to support the household.
194 The extent of 
this opportunity cost problem is not known and thus more 
needs to be done to understand the situation.
Further technical & vocational education and training 
(TVET) offers an alternative education pathway for students 
to pursue technical skills with qualifications recognised by 
employers in industry. In many professions, TVET is also a 
feasible pathway towards highly valued jobs, on par or even 
surpassing university qualifications. Under the Economic 
T ransformation Program (“ETP”), Malaysia will require an 
additional 1.5 million skilled workers in the 12 National 
Economic Area (“NKEA”) sectors by 2020. TVET is a key 
means towards fulfilling this requirement. 
There are numerous tertiary TVET programs under Government ministries such as MOHE and MOHR, as well as private 
training institutions. The courses offered in TVET institutions range from 3D Animation to engineering to hospitality and 
many more. In terms of Indian-focused initiatives, SEDIC with the cooperation of strategic partners including Jabatan 
Pembangunan Kemahiran (“JPK”) is working with private skills training institutes to provide skills training to Indian youths 
especially from the B40 group.
The take up of TVET amongst Malaysian Indian youth should be encouraged. More awareness-building of TVET should 
be targeted to the Malaysian Indian community, conveying the advantages of vocational education in providing similar 
prospects and exposure as compared to a university education. SEDIC’s current role should also be expanded to monitor 
and increase the number of Indian youths admitted into Government skills training institutes as well as to work with industry 
partners to provide post-training employment opportunities to these youths.
Interviews with various stakeholders, the Government, and NGOs.194
CHAPTER 3
84
Realising Each Child’s Potential
<<<PAGE 87>>>
Moving Forward: Recommendations and Initiatives
T o increase the proportion 
of Indians in tertiary or 
further education and 
training, this Blueprint 
aims to achieve the 
following targets:
Enable and facilitate at least 7% Indian enrolment in all Government colleges, 
universities, polytechnics and other tertiary/further education institutions, without 
compromising entry standards, within 10 years of MIB implementation 
Ensure deserving cases of Indian youth in financial need are supported by 
scholarships or loans
•
•
T o deliver on these targets, this Blueprint aims to effect the following:
As part of improving Indian educational performance at 
the secondary level, the Initiative will include programs 
to prepare and guide students in Form 4 and Form 5 on 
higher education and career options, including application 
procedures. At the tertiary level, the performance of 
students will be monitored to reduce dropout rates and to 
provide support.
A database profiling IB40 students requiring comprehensive 
financial support (beyond tuition fees) will be established, 
with funding pooled from public and private sources.
T racking to ensure that seat allocations are filled. These 
comprise: 7% of places in Government skills training 
institutes; 7% of places in IPTAs and other public tertiary 
institutions; 10% of places in Government polytechnics; 
7% of places within TVET institutions such as ILP , ADTEC, 
GMI and others; 1,500 places in Government matriculation 
courses; and 7% of JPA, Federal & state scholarships.
IB40 Educational Performance Initiative 
(as mentioned in Section A)
Higher Education Financial Support 
Program For IB40 Students
Ensuring and Tracking Allocations
1. 2. 
3. 
Malaysian Indian Blueprint 2017
85
<<<PAGE 88>>>
F . At-Risk Youth
Underperformance and dropping out of school are often indications of more serious issues 
particularly among Malaysian Indian male teenagers. Involvement in gangs and crime is on 
the rise. 
T eoh, El Sen “Students involved in violent crime and gangsterism on the rise” 
(2014, March 29) Astro Awani. Accessed at: http://english.astroawani.com/
malaysia-news/students-involved-violent-crime-and-gangsterism-rise-32766
52% of arrests are aged 19-30 years. “No. of Arrests by Type of Crime and by 
Ethnicity”, Crime Investigation Unit, Royal Police Department of Malaysia, 2014
“No. of Arrests by Type of Crime and by Ethnicity”, Crime Investigation Unit, Royal 
Police Department of Malaysia, 2014
“No. of Youth Prisoners Held in Prisons by Ethnicity” Malaysia Prisons Deparment, 
2014
 Attributed to Bukit Aman’s CID director , as reported in “The ‘taikos’ behind Indian 
gangs” (2013, August 28) Malaysia T oday. Accessed at: http://www.malaysia-today.
net/the-taikos-behind-indian-gangs/
195
196
197
198
199
Between 2012 and 2013, the Home Ministry indicated that 
the number of students involved in violent crimes had risen 
nearly 50%.
195 In 2014, of all Indian arrests, 10% are aged 
7-18 years of age.196
A 2016 survey of over 2,000 people from IB40 households 
showed that 45% believe their children to be at high risk 
of being exposed to gangs. The neighbourhood, their 
children’s peer group and family members were the top 
reasons cited. According to field workers, schools are used 
as gang recruitment grounds and students as young as 11 or 
12 are being enlisted. 
T o teenagers, gangs provide protection, belonging and credibility. Students join gangs to avoid being bullied, to have a sense 
of support which is lacking at home and school and to gain some monetary benefits. Although some students leave behind 
gang activities after completing secondary school, according to field experts several stay on and progress to heavier crimes, 
particularly those from underprivileged and/or broken families. The result is a disproportionately higher number of Indians 
among adults arrested for violent crimes and adults in prison. In 2014, 31% of arrests for violent crimes were comprised of 
Malaysian Indians
197.In addition, Indian prisoners account for 11% of the youth who are held in prison 198. Furthermore, it is 
estimated that about 70% of gang members in the country are Indians199.
CHAPTER 3
86
Realising Each Child’s Potential
<<<PAGE 89>>>
Smith, CA & Stern, SB (1997) “Delinquency and Antisocial Behavior: A Review of 
Family Processes and Intervention Research” Social Service Review, 71, pp. 382-
420.
Adaickalam, Jasmine (2015) “Strategies to Meet the Needs of High Risk Indian 
Youths and Ensure Them Psycho-Socially Included into Mainstream Development 
of the Nation” Input to Indian Development Blueprint 2016-2020 (Unpublished). 
Ibid. 
200 201
202
Key Issues & Current Interventions
Dysfunctional families are a key driver of at-risk children & youth behaviour . Studies have 
concluded that “children who grow up in homes characterised by lack of warmth and 
support, whose parents lack behaviour management skills, and whose lives are characterised 
by conflict or maltreatment will more likely be delinquent, whereas a supportive family 
can protect children even in a very hostile and damaging external environment. Parental 
monitoring or supervision is the aspect of family management that is most consistently 
related to delinquency. ”
200
From two Malaysian studies conducted in 2014, one on urban at-risk youth and the other on young offenders incarcerated 
for serious crimes, one of the common key findings is that risky youth behaviour is closely connected to “dysfunctional 
family background[s] with fragile relationships”
201 and “the absence of the father figure in the life of the young people”.202
Some measures have been taken to support problematic families. Via SEDIC, parent engagement programs have been 
funded to complement other at-risk children & youth interventions. These programs should be reviewed and structured to 
provide more systematic and sustained support to identified families.
Another major issue is program coverage and cohesion. The Ministry of Youth and Sports initiated Program Angkat 
dan Upaya (PADU) in 2014, a six-month program targeting at-risk children & youths to develop their strengths through 
counselling and mentoring. The program has shown some early success though coverage is still limited to less than a 
thousand youths to date.
Malaysian Indian Blueprint 2017
87
<<<PAGE 90>>>
Another initiative, ‘Program Remaja Berwawasan’, a structured camp mooted by the National Blue Ocean Strategy Institute 
in collaboration with defence and enforcement agencies, is also being carried out aiming to reduce risk factors among 
youths in Malaysia. More needs to be done to ensure that the program reaches Indian youths and that these efforts are 
coordinated with SEDIC’s at-risk youth initiatives.
Another initiative, ‘Program Remaja Berwawasan’, a structured camp mooted by the National Blue Ocean Strategy Institute 
in collaboration with defence and enforcement agencies, is also being carried out aiming to reduce risk factors among 
youths in Malaysia. More needs to be done to ensure that the program reaches Indian youths and that these efforts are 
coordinated with SEDIC’s at-risk youth initiatives.
Providing enough recourse for school dropouts is also a 
key issue. Avenues thought to be second chances for at-
risk youth are fewer than perceived; for example, general 
entry requirements for many IKBN/ILP courses is the PMR 
(now PT3) certificate. Youths who drop out earlier or who 
have disciplinary records would not qualify. T o provide an 
alternative, SEDIC has funded various programs including 
a flagship effort called ‘T ransformasi Holistik Belia Berisiko 
Tinggi’
203 which is centred on a skills training institute 
capable of accommodating 1,000 youths below 18 years 
old. Additionally, SEDIC has funded sports programs to 
uplift Indian youths from IB40 families.
204 There is a need 
to review whether these are sufficient avenues of recourse 
or rehabilitation for dropouts. A stocktake of the problem 
is needed to ensure that the right interventions and 
investments are made.
Carried out by MySkills Foundation Malaysian Indian Sports Council - Malaysian Indian Football Association (MISC-
MIFA) consisting of majority Malaysian Indian players from low-income families 
manage to mainstream themselves into the Malaysia Premier League season 2017 
203 204
CHAPTER 3
88
Realising Each Child’s Potential
<<<PAGE 91>>>
Moving Forward: Recommendations and Initiatives
T o address the challenge of at-risk 
children & youth, this Blueprint 
aims to achieve the following 
targets:
Ensure reduction of Indian youth involvement in crime and juvenile 
delinquency
Ensure improving trend in risk assessments measures of delinquency 
and offending amongst Indian children and youth205
•
•
T o deliver on these targets, this Blueprint aims to effect the following:
Risk assessment tools to be developed and implemented in 2017/18 based on 
risk factors identified by field practitioners, such as family environment, substance 
usage, personal disposition etc.
205
The Family T urnaround Initiative is a sustained counselling initiative aimed at supporting problematic families in working 
through dysfunctional behaviours. Families with identified at-risk youth will be identified and the youth prioritised for 
enrolment into relevant programs.
For example, identified at-risk youths aged 13 years and above will be prioritised (if appropriate to the case) for placement in 
vocational schools or colleges. The MIB Implementation Unit will work with related institutions to ensure sufficient places 
are allocated.
The MIB Implementation Unit will conduct a review to profile Malaysian Indian at-risk children & youths and size the need 
for different types of interventions and programs. The interventions could range from full-board transformation and skills 
training institutions for the most serious cases (including those suspended or expelled from school) to sports, uniformed 
movements, volunteerism and other programs for lower risk profiles.
Where there are gaps in coverage or fit by existing Government programs or centres, additional investments will be made 
via Government funding or partnerships with the private sector to establish the needed intervention in locations of high 
need. Additional investments will also cover roll out of successful pilot programs targeting Malaysian Indian at-risk youths.
The Education team of the MIB Implementation Unit will explore collaborations with the Ministry of Youth and Sports as 
well as other ministries and agencies to fully ‘plug into’ existing at-risk youth programs.
The Education team of the MIB Implementation Unit will also work with relevant ministries and agencies to propose 
refinements to these programs based on feedback from community workers, domain experts and program participants.
Establish a Family Turnaround Initiative
(as mentioned in the ‘Addressing Foundations’ chapter)
Conduct review of Malaysian Indian at-risk children & youth situation and address gaps, 
including making additional investments
Ensure sufficient participation in existing at-risk children & youth programs
1. 
3. 
2. 
Malaysian Indian Blueprint 2017
89
<<<PAGE 92>>>

<<<PAGE 93>>>
CHAPTER
4
Improving
Livelihoods 
& Wealth

<<<PAGE 94>>>
In more recent terms, Malaysian Indians show a relatively 
high aggregate level of socioeconomic achievement as 
well. The last Household Income Survey undertaken in 
2014 by the Department of Statistics found that Malaysian 
Indians’ median monthly household income was RM4,627 
compared to RM4,585 for the country overall, RM4,214 for 
the Bumiputera and RM5,708 for the Chinese.
This level of socioeconomic achievement nevertheless 
masks deep intra-ethnic inequalities, which in turn is rooted 
in differing historical legacies amongst the Malaysian Indian 
community sub-groups.
207 Incomes have grown across all 
groups but within the community, income distribution is still 
heavily concentrated amongst Indians who belong in the top 
20% (T20) and middle 40% (M40) income segments.
2014 Household Income Survey, Department of Statistics Malaysia.
As described in the ‘Contextual Overview’ section of the Introduction chapter
206
207
As a whole, Malaysian Indians have progressed  socio-economically in tandem with 
the country’s development. In the 44-year period spanning 1970 to 2014, Malaysia’s 
median monthly household income grew by a compound annual growth rate of 7 .8% 
while Malaysian Indians’ median monthly household income grew by a comparative 7 .5% 
within the same period.
206
Employment & Entrepreneurship
MEAN MONTHLY GROSS HOUSEHOLD INCOME
By Income Class & By Ethnicity (RM)
1,300
2009 2009 20092012 2012 20122014 2014 2014
1,686 2,367 1,897 1,547 1,937
2,6722,455 3,1273,272
4,123
5,190
10%
9%
10%
7%
8%
8%
13%
11%
12%4,560
3,569
5,836
4,589
7,049
5,646
17,981
8,976
B40
CAGR (2009- 2014)
M40
CAGR (2009- 2014)
T20
CAGR (2009- 2014)
BUMIPUTERA CHINESE INDIAN
9,774
13,127
14,605
10,666
12,630 12,152
15,254
CHAPTER 4
92
Improving Livelihoods & Wealth92
<<<PAGE 95>>>
T ogether , the 61% of Indians in these two income segments earn approximately 83% of the ethnic group’s total income 
while the remaining 39% or  approximately 227 ,600 Indian households in the B40 income segment earn the remaining 
17% income share.
208 This income share is similar to other major Malaysian ethnic groups’ – inequality is a challenge faced 
across the board in Malaysia – but the issue is ensuring that measures to address Malaysian inequality and social immobility 
also reaches the Malaysian Indian community.
Mean Monthly Gross Household
Income of Bottom 40% by Ethnicity, 
1995-2014 (in RM)
Mean Monthly Gross Household
Income of Middle 40% by Ethnicity, 
1995-2014 (in RM)
Mean Monthly Gross Household
Income of Top 20% by Ethnicity,
 1995-2014 (in RM)
1995
1995
1995
1997
1997
1997
1999
1999
1999
2002
2002
2002
2004
2004
2004
2007
2007
2007
2009
2009
2009
2012
2012
2012
2014
2014
2014
572
1,461
3,986
724
1,795
5,195
742
1,810
4,855
868
2,167
5,849
952
2,408
6,877
1,194
2,863
7,666
1,300
3,272
8,976
1,686
4,123
10,666
2,367
5,190
12,630
868
1,954
5,100
1,149
2,606
7,038
1,092
2,460
6,456
1,249
2,860
7,055
1,339
3,116
8,405
1,545
3,393
9,119
1,547
3,569
9,774
1,937
4,589
13,127
2,672
5,646
14,604
1,062
2,560
7,270
1,356
3,405
9,246
1,271
3,168
8,470
1,485
3,780
10,914
1,597
3,951
11,131
1,805
4,389
11,878
1,897
4,560
12,152
2,455
5,836
15,254
3,127
7,049
17,981
CAGR
(1995 - 2014)
(2001 - 2014)
(2009 -  2014)
CAGR
(1995 - 2014)
(2001 - 2014)
(2009 -  2014)
CAGR
(1995 - 2014)
(2001 - 2014)
(2009 -  2014)
BUMIPUTERA
7.8%
9.5%
12.7%
BUMIPUTERA
6.9%
8.0%
9.7%
BUMIPUTERA
6.3%
6.3%
7.1%
CHINESE
5.8%
7.0%
10.5%
CHINESE
5.5%
6.0%
9.1%
CHINESE
4.9%
4.9%
8.2%
INDIAN
6.1%
7.2%
11.5%
INDIAN
5.7%
6.1%
9.6%
INDIAN
5.7%
5.7%
8.4%
Household Income and Expenditure 2014 Report furnished by Minister in the Prime Minister’s Department, Tan Sri Abdul Wahid Omar , in a written reply to Ampang MP 
Zuraida Kamaruddin. As reported in “Bumis majority of top earners - but disparity widest, too” (2015, November 26) Malaysiakini. Accessed at: https://www.malaysiakini.com/
news/321081
208
Population EstimatePopulation EstimatePopulation Estimate
Malaysian Indian Blueprint 2017
93
<<<PAGE 96>>>
As recently as 2012, Malaysian Indians had the highest level of intra-ethnic income inequality - in that year the Gini 
coefficient209 for Indians stood at 0.44 while Bumiputera and Chinese intra-ethnic income inequality stood at 0.42. However , 
based on the latest household income statistics in 2014, income inequality amongst Indians has reduced and is now on par 
with the Bumiputera at 0.39 while Chinese intra-ethnic income inequality is the highest at 0.41 (though this is likely due to 
an increase in financial aid cash transfers such as Bantuan Rakyat 1Malaysia or BR1M rather than a structural increase in 
wages or other income).
210
Financial aid cash transfers are useful to alleviate the burdens of living costs temporarily. However , this chapter is concerned 
with conclusively breaking the cycle of low incomes amongst Malaysian Indians in the B40 income segment (IB40) as 
well as supporting them in sustaining their increased earnings. Social mobility for the IB40 will not occur unless there are 
targeted and effective interventions aimed at improving their livelihoods and wealth.
State of Households II Report, Khazanah Research InstituteThe Gini coefficient is an index from 0 to 1 measuring income inequality: the higher 
the number , the higher the inequality.
210209
INTRA-ETHNIC
Income Share
% of households
BUMIPUTERA CHINESE INDIAN
% Income share
T20
M40
B40
17.1 16.3 17.1
39.0 42.3 41.3
16.3 29.7 20.0
45.5 46.9 46.7
37.4 36.8 36.2
44.7 28.0 38.7
CHAPTER 4
94
Improving Livelihoods & Wealth
<<<PAGE 97>>>
The historical reasons may differ but as with other ethnic groups today, low incomes amongst the Malaysian Indian 
community are due to low capacities in providing employer-demanded skills via employment or in providing market-valued 
goods and services via entrepreneurship. There is evidence to show that inter-generational mobility in skills and income 
is lower for Malaysian Indians than other ethnic groups. 25% of Bumiputera children and 39% of Chinese children born 
to parents with low occupational skill levels
211 are able to attain high occupational skill levels compared to only 19% of 
Malaysian Indian children.212
This pattern carries over to income mobility: 38% of Malaysian Indian children born to parents at the bottom income quintile 
remain in the same income class as their parents compared to 27% of Bumiputera and 11% of Chinese children.
213 There is 
also a gender dimension to consider . Across ethnicities, the incomes of sons are less tied to the socioeconomic status of 
their parents compared to daughters. However , the degree of this income elasticity relationship to parental status is higher 
for Malaysian Indian daughters compared to daughters of other ethnicities suggesting a lower likelihood for Malaysian 
Indian females to progress, all other factors being equal.
214
The main Government interventions to raise livelihoods 
are focused on raising employability through education 
and skills training as well as on improving entrepreneurial 
capability and facilitating business establishment. The 11th 
Malaysia Plan outlines several programs to help the low-
income group via these pathways.
This Blueprint aims to ensure that the IB40 is plugged into 
these efforts, thereby uplifting their income and wealth 
levels in line with the Government’s aim of doubling the 
mean and median monthly income of B40 households by 
2020.
Occupations are classified by the Malaysia Standard Classification of Occupation 2008, the Department of Statistics, Malaysia and the World Bank 
Climbing the Ladder; Socioeconomic Mobility in Malaysia. Khazanah Research Institute, October 2016
Ibid. Income quintiles are derived by sorting and dividing the study’s sample. Thus, income quintiles for parents and children would differ according to the income distribution of 
the respective generations
 Ibid.
211
212
213
214
Malaysian Indian Blueprint 2017
95
<<<PAGE 98>>>
From 2015 baseline, in line with 11th Malaysia Plan.
Companies registered with the Registrar of Companies, Malaysia (ROC)
Increase compared to 2017 baseline
Increase compared to 2017 baseline
215
216
217
218
Close the inter-ethnic gap in unemployment rates within 5 years 
of MIB implementation, with priority on youth below 30
Double mean and median monthly wages of IB40 households 
within 5 years of MIB implementation215
Increase the asset/wealth base of IB40 households within 10 
years of MIB implementation
218
Upward trend in number of  active registered companies and sole 
proprietorships owned or partially owned by Malaysian Indians 
within 10 years of MIB implementation
216
Increase the number of companies owned or partially owned 
by Malaysian Indians in National Key Economic Area sectors 
(NKEAs) within 10 years of MIB implementation
217
Upward trend in mean and median annual revenues of registered 
businesses owned or partially owned by Malaysian Indians within 
10 years of MIB implementation
•
•
•
•
•
•
A. Employment
C. Wealth
B. Entrepreneurship
Improving Livelihoods 
& Wealth: Targets
Complementing targets set in the 11th Malaysia Plan and by 
related ministries and agencies, the MIB sets out to achieve 
the following:
CHAPTER 4
96
Improving Livelihoods & Wealth96
<<<PAGE 99>>>
A. Employment
In 2015, there were 868,800 working Indians, of which 22. 1% work in manufacturing, 15. 1% in 
wholesale and retail, and 10.9% in transportation. More than 50% of Indians are employed in 
low-income jobs such as service and sales workers (17 .4%); plant and machine operators and 
assemblers (22.4%); and elementary staff (10.7%).
219
Employment Rates by Ethnicity and Age Group 2015 by Penyiasatan T enaga Buruh, 
Jabatan Perangkaan Malaysia 
Extracted from Inclusive Development and Malaysian Indians by Muhammed Abdul 
Khalid - Contemporary Malaysian Indians, edited by Denison Jayasooria and K.S. 
Nathan
Employment Rates By Ethnicity and By Occupation. Source: Penyiasatan T enaga 
Buruh, Jabatan Perangkaan Malaysia, 2015
Survey was conducted in Selangor in 2010 by Professor Mahendiran Nair’s research 
team at Monash University Malaysia, extracted from Malaysian Indian Economic 
Development Report For RMK-11, by SEED Steering Committee
221
222
219
220
Unemployment is also a key issue faced by the Malaysian Indian community. In 2015, the average Indian unemployment rate 
was 4.3% compared to the average national unemployment rate of 3.3%, the Bumiputera unemployment rate of 3.6% and 
the Chinese unemployment rate of 2.3%.
221 When broken down by gender , the average unemployment rate for Malaysian 
males was 2.9% whereas the estimated figure for Indian males was higher at 4%. The gap is wider among females, where the 
estimated unemployment rate for Indian females stood at 5.2%, higher than the average for Malaysian females at 3.2%.
222 
There is no significant evidence of a gender gap in educational attainment and thus, the gender gap in unemployment must 
be attributable to other factors such as cultural expectations, childcare needs or others.
More should be done to reveal 
and tackle gender dynamics 
amongst the Malaysian 
Indian community and its 
socioeconomic impact.
Low educational and skills attainment is the primary 
contributing factor to the Indian employment pattern. Based 
on a 2010 survey of urban poor Indians, 32% of the urban 
poor Indian workforce had only up to higher secondary 
level education, 41% had only up to lower secondary level 
education, 11% had only up to primary level education and 
5% had no formal education.
220 
The existence of a specific IB40 sub-segment should be 
noted, comprising an estimated 25,000 Indians who are 
either stateless or have documentation issues. As a result 
of this lack of documentation, most are not able to access 
formal education or employment. This issue is covered in 
more detail in the ‘Social Inclusion’ chapter .
Malaysian Indian Blueprint 2017
97
<<<PAGE 100>>>
Employment Rates By Ethnicity And Age Group 2015 by Penyiasatan T enaga Buruh, 
Jabatan Perangkaan Malaysia
223
The unemployment rate among Indian youths is particularly alarming. Within most young age groups, Malaysian Indians 
show the highest rate of unemployment compared to peers of other ethnicities. For example, 25.5% of Indians aged 
15-19 are categorised as ‘unemployed’ by the DOS, as opposed to being in education or working, compared to 18. 1% of 
Bumiputera and 12. 1% of Chinese aged 15-19. 14.5% of Indians aged 20-24 are categorised as ‘unemployed’ compared to 
11.6% of Bumiputera and 8.0% of Chinese aged 20-24 years.
223
UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (%)
By Ethnicity
BUMIPUTERA
CHINESE
INDIAN
AGE GROUP
15-19
25.5%
14.5%
5.0% 2.4% 2.1% 0.8% 0.9% 1.1% 0.8% 0.0%
20-24 25-29 30-34 35-39 40-44 45-49 50-54 55-59 60-64
CHAPTER 4
98
Improving Livelihoods & Wealth
<<<PAGE 101>>>
An example is the 2u2i program where students spend two years in university and 
the next two years in a work-based learning program as opposed to short bursts of 
internships or industrial training
An example is the Integrated Cumulative Grade Point Average (iCGPA) where 
students are assessed across seven indicators including communication skills and 
problem-solving abilities
225224
Key Issues & Current Interventions
The IB40 workforce suffers from low employability due to a skills and qualifications gap. 
While there has been concerted effort in recent years to address low incomes amongst the 
Malaysian Indian community via entrepreneurship, there has been less focused attention and 
resources on lifting incomes via upskilling and employment. The situation is compounded 
by competition from cheaper foreign workers as well as the risk of being replaced by labour-
saving technology.
Various broad-based Government programs on upskilling and improving employability have been initiated. For college and 
university graduates, programs such as the Graduate Employability Management Scheme (GEMS) under Talentcorp work to 
improve the level of market-relevant competencies in program participants via training and job placements. Similarly, Skim 
Latihan 1Malaysia (“SL1M”) trains and places graduates in a wide range of GLCs. Measures under the Ministry of Higher 
Education set out to tackle the problem even earlier , i.e. before graduation, by introducing enhanced assessment methods  
224  and increasing immersive industry experience225 within the course syllabus.
For those who choose the technical and vocational track, several skills training programs are provided under institutions 
such as Institut Kemahiran Belia dan Negara (IKBN) by the Ministry of Youth & Sports (MYS), Institut Latihan Perindustrian 
(ILP) by the Ministry of Human Resource (MOHR), Kolej Komuniti by the Ministry of Education (MOE) and others. There are 
also approximately 1,200 Government-accredited skills training centres nationwide offering courses in various fields such 
as oil and gas, motor mechanics, automotive technology, hotel management, culinary arts, tailoring, and welding.
T o deliver the Blueprint goals,
this gap in implementation emphasis needs to be rectified, particularly in driving job placements.
Malaysian Indian Blueprint 2017
99
<<<PAGE 102>>>
Several skills training programs were established and 
structured to support the workforce needs of the identified 
high-value economic sectors or National Key Economic 
Areas (NKEAs).
226 For example, in oil & gas, institutes 
such as IKBN are collaborating with PETRONAS to train 
technicians for the massive refinery and petrochemical 
integrated development (RAPID) in Pengerang, Johor . 
Partnerships between skills training institutes and industry 
have been emphasised by the Government to ensure the 
employment of program participants post-training.
Demand for such programs is high; the imperative is to ensure fair and proportionate participation by the Malaysian 
Indian community, particularly the IB40. In recent years, Indian participation in IKBN has improved to reach 10% of total 
enrolment, thanks to the support of the host ministry and agency. However , based on outreach experiences, it is believed 
that Government programs are under-utilised by the IB40 group due to lack of awareness, language and cultural barriers 
as well as lack of confidence in gaining entry. There is also a gender component that needs to be further investigated and 
addressed, towards enabling more IB40 women to be in productive employment via, for example, targeted training and 
childcare support.
T o attract the IB40, SEDIC has stepped into the breach by undertaking outreach efforts as well as by collaborating with skills 
training providers to deliver Indian-focused upskilling courses via the Institute Latihan Kemahiran Swasta (“ILKS”). These 
efforts while extremely helpful would however be limited in coverage and reach compared to broad-based Government 
programs. Thus, more must be done to ensure that low-income Indians are aware of, supported and enrolled into broad-
based Government upskilling and job placement programs.
Apart from the gap in educational and skills attainment, there is also a perception of employer discrimination against 
employing Indian workers.
227 There is a need to investigate this further and to build bridges with major employers to increase 
job placement opportunities particularly for the IB40.
The NKEAs are oil, gas & energy; palm oil & rubber; wholesale & retail; financial 
services; tourism; electronics & electrical; business services; communications 
content & infrastructure; education; agriculture; and healthcare
Based on various interviews with community organisers and other Blueprint 
stakeholders
226 227
CHAPTER 4
100
Improving Livelihoods & Wealth
<<<PAGE 103>>>
Moving Forward: Recommendations and Initiatives
This Blueprint aims to 
achieve the following 
targets:
Close the inter-ethnic gap in unemployment rates within 5 years of MIB 
implementation, with priority on youth below 30
Double mean and median monthly wages of IB40 households within 5 years of 
MIB implementation 228
•
•
T o deliver on these targets, this Blueprint aims to effect the following:
  From 2015 baseline, in line with 11th Malaysia Plan. 228
An outreach, facilitation and feeder function like SEED 
(the unit established to facilitate entrepreneurship among 
Malaysian Indians) is needed to ensure proportionate Indian 
participation in broad-based Government programs related 
to upskilling and job placement. As the function shares 
very similar skills sets to the existing SEED, this Blueprint 
recommends this function be an extension of the SEED 
team’s mandate which will itself be reorganised under a 
new MIB Implementation Unit. As and when appropriate, 
officers from the team will support Government officers in 
relating to Indian program participants, and vice versa.
In partnership with relevant Government agencies, the aforementioned team will encourage the participation of corporations 
and major employers to provide job placements for Malaysian Indian graduates of upskilling courses, towards increasing the 
diversity of the company’s workforce. The team will also develop upskilling courses with selected employers e.g. plantation 
companies, to place estate workers or their families in identified job categories within the company.
The team will also devise an incentive program to reduce the risks for employers, such as providing partial subsidies for EPF 
contributions and/or salaries for the first months or year of employment.
This team will also ensure proportionate Indian participation, particularly amongst women, in programs that enable 
participation in upskilling and job placement programs such as childcare services or facilities. T o bridge gaps in language 
proficiency, literacy, confidence or opportunity cost, the team will provide complementary modules to enable participation 
by the IB40 group.
Reorganise and consolidate functions 
related to income upliftment in one 
department/team
Enrol companies and employers as upskilling and job placement partners
1. 
2. 
Malaysian Indian Blueprint 2017
101
<<<PAGE 104>>>
B. Entrepreneurship
Entrepreneurship is a relatively underexplored means of income generation amongst the 
Malaysian Indian community in general: of all employed persons, it is estimated 14.3% 
Indians are entrepreneurs compared to 22.4% of Bumiputera and 23.2% of Chinese.
229 In the 
years 2005 to 2013 when this data was tracked, there were 38, 138 active Indian companies of 
which 91% were microbusinesses.
230
On the scale of large listed companies, Indian ownership of shares has hovered around 1.5%-1.6% over the past decade, 
lagging behind other ethnic groups by a big margin. Ownership in these limited companies, is moreover , highly concentrated 
amongst a few individuals in the Indian business elite.
231
Labour Force Survey Report, 2014
Ibid.
Malaysian Indian Economic Development Report For RMK-11 by SEED Steering 
Committee.
229
230
231
CHAPTER 4
102
Improving Livelihoods & Wealth
<<<PAGE 105>>>
Many Government initiatives have been introduced to nurture and grow entrepreneurs, from entrepreneurship development 
courses to financing programs. Until recently, such initiatives have been fairly under-utilised by the Malaysian Indian 
community due to a combination of lack of awareness as well as a lack of confidence that they will be granted access. 
However , since the establishment of SEED, a strategic unit reporting to the CCIC to facilitate Indian entrepreneurship, the 
number of Indian applicants to Government business loan programs has increased significantly.
The capacity of Indian business owners is a key issue and challenge, which ties back to the issue 
of low educational and skills attainment. Many Indian micro businesses and entrepreneurs 
are at the low end of the value chain. It is challenging for them to transition to the higher 
end of the value chain as many lack adequate entrepreneurship skills, domain knowledge, 
financing and network. 
SEED’s role in outreach, guidance and facilitation has 
encouraged Indian entrepreneurs to access Government’s 
services. At the time of writing, SEED has assisted 29, 115 
Indian entrepreneurs in securing loans amounting to RM 1.2 
billion
232 and has trained over 3,500 Indian entrepreneurs 
through capacity building programs such as the SEED 
training series.
In strategic partnership with selected Government 
entities, SEED has worked to ensure proportional Indian 
participation. For example, a TEKUN-SEED special scheme, 
SPUMI, has been instrumental in screening applicants and 
providing funding to small Indian start-ups. Nearly RM245 
million has been disbursed, assisting nearly 18,201 small 
entrepreneurs.
233
Key Issues & Current Interventions
As reported by SEED, the data is compiled from micro financing channels such 
as TEKUN, AIM, SEED Start Up Nation and SME financing channels such as SME 
Bank, SME Corp, MIDF , Credit Guarantee Corporation (CGC), Shariah-compliant 
SME Financing Scheme (SSFS) as well as other initiatives such as Small Retailer 
T ransformation Program (TUKAR) and Automotive Workshop Modernisation 
(ATOM) 
TEKUN Nasional monthly updates232 233
Malaysian Indian Blueprint 2017
103
<<<PAGE 106>>>
SEED has also partnered with Amanah Ikhtiar Malaysia (AIM) to provide Indian entrepreneurs, specifically women, with 
access to financing for micro businesses. AIM provides women-focused entrepreneurship training, as well as development 
programs aimed at training business skills. RM114 million has been disbursed via the SEED-AIM partnership, assisting 
nearly 9,310 Indian women entrepreneurs.
234
Larger businesses are covered by a partnership with SME Bank known as the MY-SEEDS SME scheme (MYS3); to date SME 
Bank has funded 181 Indian businesses to the tune of RM291 million since the start of the SEED-SME Bank relationship in 
2008.
235 Under a pilot started in 2015, the Centre for Entrepreneur Development and Research (“CEDAR”) under SME Bank 
has also provided training and development services to Indian SME applicants screened and referred by SEED. The success 
rate of loan application has increased from 31% to 89% for participants of this pilot program, an encouraging result validating 
a fuller rollout. Indian businesses in the industrial sector have also seen support from Malaysian Industrial Development 
Finance Berhad (“MIDF”), which has disbursed over RM100 million to 93 Indian businesses since 2009.
236
The efforts by the SEED team should continue and mature into the next phase of work, deepening the relationships 
and partnerships that have been built with strategic agencies to ensure proportional Indian participation in Government 
entrepreneurship initiatives. Achievements in facilitating financing for micro and small Indian businesses should be 
expanded to cover facilitation in accessing other vital support components such as Government and GLC vendor development 
programs or contracts, NKEA-related entrepreneurship schemes and incentives as well as coaching. The budding Indian 
entrepreneurship community should also be strengthened and encouraged to become a mutual support network.
AIM monthly updates
SME Bank quarterly updates
MIDF quarterly updates234
235
236
CHAPTER 4
104
Improving Livelihoods & Wealth
<<<PAGE 107>>>
T o deliver on these targets, this Blueprint aims to effect the following:
Moving Forward: Recommendations and Initiatives
This Blueprint 
aims to achieve the 
following targets:
Upward trend in number of active registered companies and sole proprietorships owned 
or partially owned by Malaysian Indians within 10 years of MIB implementation 237
Increase the number of companies owned or partially owned by Malaysian Indians in 
National Key Economic Area sectors (NKEAs) within 10 years of MIB implementation 
238
Upward trend in mean and median annual revenues of registered businesses owned or 
partially owned by Malaysian Indians within 10 years of MIB implementation
•
•
•
Companies registered with Suruhanjaya Syarikat Malaysia (SSM)
Increase compared to 2017 baseline
Suruhanjaya Syarikat Malaysia (SSM) between 2005 - 2013237
238
239
T o deliver the abovementioned entrepreneurship targets of 
the Blueprint, SEED’s facilitation programs (under the MIB 
Implementation Unit) will need to create greater interest in 
entrepreneurship amongst the Malaysian Indian community, 
identify greater numbers of potential entrepreneurs as well 
as to nurture high potential businesses towards scale and 
revenue growth.
The first refinement is to more clearly delineate, and address via multipronged strategies, the different needs of two main 
segments: ‘IB40 businesses’ i.e. micro and smaller businesses prevalent amongst the IB40, and ‘IM40 businesses’ i.e. 
SMEs held or partially held by Malaysian Indians in the M40 income strata.  There are currently an estimated 34,705 and 
3,433 active businesses in these segments respectively. 
239
For IB40 businesses, funding facilitation will be continued and refined. New funding schemes will be structured to encourage 
start-ups while for existing businesses, loan tiering and loan caps will be revised to match business needs. Support for 
undertaking affordable and relevant entrepreneurship training will be increased. There will also be greater emphasis on 
graduation, where high growth businesses will be identified for nurturing into SMEs.
For IM40 businesses, facilitation to access commercial funding will be supplemented by affirmative Government financing 
allocations, channeled via financial institutions, to assist the SMEs in scaling up. T o support impact-monitoring efforts, 
commercial financial institutions will also be advised to disclose the proportion of financing granted to Malaysian Indian 
entrepreneurs, particularly SME financing.
Refine and expand suite of SEED 
programs
1. 
Malaysian Indian Blueprint 2017
105
<<<PAGE 108>>>
However , it is recognised that there will continue to be a SME funding gap from traditional financial institutions due to lack 
of credit information and/or collateral, data scarcity and other issues pertinent to SMEs in general. This problem is prevalent 
for all Malaysian SMEs, not just Indian-owned enterprises. Apart from initiatives to improve SMEs’ literacy and navigation of 
traditional financial institutions’ processes, facilitation to access alternative funding modes will also be undertaken such as 
equity crowd-funding and peer-to-peer financing.
Entrepreneurship development programs that have been successfully piloted, such as SEED-LEAP (in partnership with 
SME Bank), will be more fully rolled out. Facilitation to access schemes and opportunities related to the NKEA value chain 
will be enhanced to increase presence in high growth and high value sectors, including facilitation for licensing approvals. 
Access to markets outside Malaysia will also be encouraged, in collaboration with MATRADE.
The pool of Indian entrepreneurs will also be encouraged to form a mutual support network, becoming mentors to new or 
aspiring Indian entrepreneurs.
CHAPTER 4
106
Improving Livelihoods & Wealth
<<<PAGE 109>>>
The MIB Implementation unit will, in partnership with MOF , Khazanah and other relevant 
Government and Government-linked entities, establish an outreach, screening, facilitation 
and monitoring program to increase the participation of capable Indian-owned companies 
in Government & GLC procurement contracts, including but not limited to vendor 
development programs. Qualified companies owned or partially owned by Malaysian 
Indians will be specially assisted and facilitated to participate in Government procurement, 
particularly small and medium-sized enterprises.
Ensure representative Indian participation in 
Government and GLC procurement
2. 
Malaysian Indian Blueprint 2017
107
<<<PAGE 110>>>
The situation is compounded by increases in the cost of 
living. It was found that the average monthly spending of 
B40 households increased 10. 1% annually from RM1,248 
in 2009 to RM2,015 in 2014.
242  The availability of relatively 
easy consumer credit is also an aggravating factor . As of 
2014, households earning RM3,000 a month and below 
had an indebtedness level of seven times their annual 
household income compared to three to four times for 
households earning RM5,000 a month.
243
The IB40 survey results reflect these overall statistics; 82% of surveyed IB40 respondents hold some form of debts, with 
39% stating that their debt level is high but still manageable and 24% stating that their debt level is beyond control.
244
According to an IB40 survey undertaken by the 
Blueprint Secretariat, only 16% of the IB40 
have long-term savings though the majority 
of these will draw down the savings in cases of 
financial emergency.
240 81% of those surveyed 
do not have sufficient savings to support 3 
months’ living expenses.
241
C. Retaining and Building Wealth
Attaining a good level of financial health, including having enough to weather financial shocks 
and being able to fund important long-term goals, is challenging enough for many income 
segments. Low-income households face a greater challenge than most in attaining a level of 
financial health as the bulk of finances is taken up with covering day-to-day expenses. 
Strategy Paper 2 for the 11th Malaysia Plan, EPU
Face-to-face survey of 2,087 Malaysian Indians in B40 households throughout 
Peninsular Malaysia conducted in July to September 2016. MIB Secretariat
Face-to-face survey of 2,087 Malaysian Indians in B40 households throughout 
Peninsular Malaysia conducted in July to September 2016. MIB Secretariat
Ibid.
Household Income & Expenditure Survey 2014
243
244
240
241
242
CHAPTER 4
108
Improving Livelihoods & Wealth
<<<PAGE 111>>>
0.8
0.9
0.7
0.6
0.5
0.4
0.3
0.2
0.1
0
<RM1K< RM1K-2K <RM2K-3K <RM3K-4K <RM4K-5K <RM5K-10K <RM10K
Marginal Propensity to Consume
Household Marginal Propensity to Consume,
By Income (2013)
The Marginal Propensity to Consume across Household Income Groups, Bank 
Negara Malaysia Working Paper Series, 2013
245
Key Issues & Current Interventions
The capacity to retain earnings and build wealth is naturally limited amongst households 
with low incomes, where living expenses make up a significantly large proportion of their 
income. According to Bank Negara Malaysia’s 2013 study of households’ marginal propensity 
to consume, households earning less than RM1,000 a month will spend, on average, RM0.81 
from RM1 in additional disposable income. Households earning between RM1,000 to 
RM2,000 a month will spend, on average, RM0.74 from RM1 in additional disposable income.
The marginal propensity to consume 
starts to decline more sharply for 
the next income bracket, signaling a 
level of consumption sufficiency at 
the RM2,000 to RM3,000 a month 
mark.
245 This indicates that households 
earning below RM2,000 to RM3,000 a 
month would need particular support 
in routing any excess earnings to 
savings or in enhancing their savings 
levels (apart from increasing their 
income generating capacity).
T o increase the savings and wealth of B40 households, the 11th Malaysia Plan aims to expand unit trust schemes such 
as Amanah Saham Wawasan (“ASW”), Amanah Saham 1Malaysia (“AS1M”) and Amanah Saham Gemilang. This Blueprint 
supports these plans and proposes to complement them with initiatives that would support IB40 households in committing 
to these savings and to build up financial health in general.
Malaysian Indian Blueprint 2017
109
<<<PAGE 112>>>
Increase compared to 2017 baseline
Matching ratio to be determined by scheme T echnical Committee comprised of MIB 
Implementation Unit and MOF , amongst others
246
247
Moving Forward: Recommendations and Initiatives
This Blueprint aims to 
achieve the following 
targets:
•  Increase the asset/wealth base of IB40 households within 10 years of MIB  
    implementation 
246
T o deliver on this target, this Blueprint aims to effect the following:
•
 A RM500 mil seed fund will be established to seed the savings of IB40 households - particularly those below the poverty 
line - in relevant PNB unit trust schemes. The scheme, while broadly targeted towards the IB40 community, should have 
a matching ratio that differs according to income levels of the IB40 household. 
247 The funds are locked in for a minimum 
period but can be withdrawn in specified cases of emergency or economic shock.
The MIB Implementation Unit will also call for submissions from private, non-governmental and social sectors for innovative 
proposals to encourage and increase savings amongst IB40 households, such as to enable frequent micro-savings, to 
improve financial literacy and to inculcate the savings habit amongst Indian children and youth.
Seed and support savings habit1. 
CHAPTER 4
110
Improving Livelihoods & Wealth
<<<PAGE 113>>>
The MIB Implementation Unit will 
also call for submissions from 
private, non-governmental and social 
sectors for innovative proposals to 
encourage and increase savings 
amongst IB40 households, such as 
to enable frequent micro-savings, 
to improve financial literacy and to 
inculcate the savings habit amongst 
Indian children and youth.
Malaysian Indian Blueprint 2017
111111
<<<PAGE 114>>>

<<<PAGE 115>>>
CHAPTER
5
Increasing Social
Inclusion
<<<PAGE 116>>>
These issues are particularly felt by the lower income 
groups within the community. 55% of IB40 surveyed in 2016 
felt that the Indian community in Malaysia is neglected, 
whereas only 23% did not.
248 Perceived difficulties in 
obtaining employment and places at universities as well 
as the treatment of unregistered temples were the top 
reasons cited.
249 Significantly, 74% felt that a Government 
plan focused on assisting low-income Malaysian Indians is 
needed compared to only 25% who felt that a plan is needed 
for low income earners of all races.
250
Secondly, issues related to religious observance such as 
temple relocation and restrictions on the use of public halls 
for religious ceremonies can also bring about feelings of 
marginalisation. In a multi-cultural society, such issues can 
spill over to become a source of inter-ethnic tension, if not 
handled sensitively.
Thirdly, how Malaysian Indians are represented in public 
life can also hinder the community’s sense of societal 
inclusion. Malaysian Indians are under-represented in what 
can be deemed as positive spaces, and over-represented 
in certain negative areas. For example, representation in 
higher education, skilled employment, entrepreneurship 
and the civil service is low. Participation in gangs and crime, 
a negative space, is disproportionately high. 
As elaborated in other chapters, a sizable proportion of the lower socioeconomic layer of the Malaysian Indian community 
had for decades been sequestered in plantations, with little opportunity for integrating with the wider society outside. Once 
out of the relative isolation of the plantations, the groups inevitably faced challenges in finding their place in society, a 
challenge that has carried over for generations. 
The sense of marginalisation is intensified by several issues particular to the Malaysian Indian community. Firstly, citizenship 
and documentation issues continue to affect a proportion of the community, with serious consequences particularly for the 
young. Without official recognition of their status as Malaysians, they will not be entitled to the benefits of full membership 
in Malaysian society.
The remaining 22% respondents selected ‘did not know’. Source: Face-to-face 
survey of 2,087 Malaysian Indians in B40 households throughout Peninsular 
Malaysia conducted in July to September 2016. MIB Secretariat
lbid.
Ibid.
248 249
250
The Indian community is a significant minority group in Malaysia. The community constitutes 7% of the Malaysian 
population and is a significant contributor to the country’s historical socioeconomic development, cultural diversity 
and daily life. While harmonious on the whole, like other ethnic minorities in other countries, the Malaysian Indian 
community faces challenges related to integration and inclusion into wider society.
Belonging & Identity in a Multi-Cultural Malaysia
CHAPTER 5
114
  Increasing Social Inclusion114
<<<PAGE 117>>>
SRI MARATHANDAVAR AALAYAM, MARAN
RM 800,000 given by the Government for construction and maintenance 
works. 
Kuil Sri Maha Mariamman Dhevasthanam, Kuala Lumpur :
RM 1 Million given by the Government for construction and maintenance works.
*Temple on chapter cover page
The first part of this chapter tackles the issue of statelessness and documentation. This issue still affects approximately 
25,000 Malaysian Indians who are either stateless or undocumented, including children and youth. Apart from the 
challenge of non-integration, undocumented children and youth perpetuate their families’ cycle of poverty as they are 
unable to officially enroll for education in Government schools as well as pursue formal employment later in life.  
The second part of this chapter tackles the issue of religious 
observance amongst the Malaysian Indian community. 
There have been several cases of new temples being built 
on private land and of old temples being moved to make 
way for development. T o maintain harmony and avoid 
destructive politicisation, the establishment and relocation 
of temples must be done in a fair and orderly manner . 
Another issue is the barring of the use of public halls for 
non-Islamic religious ceremonies. T o ensure fairness, and 
without offending other religious sensitivities, attempts 
must be made to provide enough public halls as well as 
to educate the public on the use of shared spaces and its 
impact on religious sanctity.
At the same time, the issue of religious observance cuts both ways. Apart from respecting and accommodating the religious 
needs of the Malaysian Indian community, the contribution of Malaysian Indian religious institutions also needs to be 
scrutinised, particularly as the recipient of vast donations from the community. T emples have a significant role as partners 
in supporting and developing the Malaysian Indian community; more needs to be done to ensure that this role is upheld.
The third part of this chapter tackles the issue of Malaysian Indian representation in public life. Several negative stereotypes 
associated with the Malaysian Indian community are reinforced in real life, such as involvement in gangs and crime. Malaysian 
Indians need to be visibly represented in more positive fields. Alongside such tangible socioeconomic improvements, as 
targeted by this Blueprint, the community’s perception of itself as well as others’ views of the community also needs to be 
improved.
Malaysian Indian Blueprint 2017
115
<<<PAGE 118>>>
Resolve the legal documentation issue of the 
approximately 25,000 undocumented Indians living in 
Malaysia, with priority on children and youth, within 5 
years of MIB implementation 
Increase the proportion of Malaysian Indians in civil service 
to at least 7% at all grade levels, without compromising 
entry standards, within 10 years of MIB implementation
Reduce over-representation of Malaysian Indians in 
negative areas, such as crime and police arrests, within 10 
years of MIB implementation
Improve perceptions of the Malaysian Indian community 
by those within and outside the community
 251
Institute federal and state-accepted policies and 
procedures with regard to the establishment, registration 
and relocation of temples
Increase the social contribution of temples and other 
Indian houses of worship to the community
Resolve the issue of public hall usage, ensuring that there 
is sufficient supply and/or alternatives particularly in low-
cost housing areas
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
A. Citizenship and Documentation
C. Representation in Public Life
B. Religious Observance
  Measurement to be developed, and baseline measured, in 2017251
Increasing Social 
Inclusion: Targets
CHAPTER 5
116
  Increasing Social Inclusion116
<<<PAGE 119>>>
A. Citizenship and Documentation
Upon achieving Independence from the British, the new Government of Malaya initiated 
a work permit system wherein Chinese and Indian immigrants, who had been brought in 
as labourers, were required to register in order to become citizens of Malaya. However , an 
estimated one-fifth of Indians, many of whom were estate workers, failed to register for the 
work permit which later granted citizenship, due to a combination of geographic isolation, 
ignorance, illiteracy and procedural challenges. 
Development of Human Resources for Rural Areas (DHRRA)
Refers to individuals not holding any identification document and not considered as 
a citizen by any nation
Refers to individuals holding ‘red’ identity cards (indicating ‘permanent resident’ 
status) or MyKAS (indicating ‘temporary resident’ status) with challenges in produc-
ing proof of citizenship, e.g. birth certificate, marriage certificate, etc.
252
253
254
The issue has carried over across generations. According to an NGO 252 active in this space, an estimated 12,300 people of 
Indian ethnicity are currently stateless,253 while another 13,000 people of Indian ethnicity face documentation254 problems. 
Unregistered marriages, abandoned children and informal adoptions have complicated and perpetuated the matter .
Without citizenship, individuals are not able to obtain the MyKad at the age of 12 as required by law, nor officially register 
marriages or claim children as Malaysian citizens. A ‘stateless’ individual, or one with documentation issues, has no access 
to basic support services such as welfare assistance, education and healthcare. It is also difficult for a stateless person to get 
formal employment, which pushes these individuals towards informal low-skilled work and poverty.
Malaysian Indian Blueprint 2017
117117
<<<PAGE 120>>>
Department of Chemistry Malaysia. Accessed at: http://www.kimia.gov.my/v3/en/
about-us/forensic/paternity.html
National Registration Department. Accessed at: http://www.jpn.gov.my/en/kp/
permohonan-gantian-hilang-kad-pengenalan-mykad-atau-mypr/#145852820307
8-8acbfa91-eb1b
255 256
Key Issues & Current Interventions
The most pressing concern with regard to the citizenship and documentation issue is the 
impact it has on the most vulnerable groups, i.e. children and youth. An undocumented child 
or youth cannot officially enroll in Government schools; many receive their education from 
home-schooling NGOs or go without education.
Most of the challenges are related to current policies and processes. National security concerns are understandably high, 
leading to stringent conditions for proving Malaysian birth and lineage. More needs to be done to explore alternative 
but credible proofs of birth and lineage to resolve cases where documentation is seriously lacking. Procedures can also 
be revised to reduce lengthy processing times; for example, a change in applicant marital status currently requires an 
application resubmission, which may restart the entire process.
The relatively high cost of citizenship application is also a challenge. Fees are charged on database searches, processing 
and paternity tests, which may run up to over RM1,500 per application.
255 There is also a ‘late penalty’, ranging between 
RM100 and RM300, applicable to certain cases. 256 Community workers have indicated that a number of successful IB40 
applicants have not collected their citizenship certificates due to the late penalty fees. Where fees and charges are an 
obstacle to applicants, appropriate financial or policy support needs to be provided.
CHAPTER 5
118
  Increasing Social Inclusion
<<<PAGE 121>>>
The duration for processing of a citizenship application can 
also take months, if not years. Several process challenges 
complicate the situation. Applicants are frequently required 
to travel to NRD offices, which costs them time and money, 
while older applicants are susceptible to health issues and 
immobility, prolonging the process even further .
The process challenges were reduced to some extent via 
outreach programs. During the ‘MyDaftar’ campaign period 
organized by the Special Implementation Taskforce (SITF), 
NRD’s mobile registration units were mobilised to tackle 
the logistical challenges. Significant impact was made by 
effectively targeting rural residents with mobility issues. 
Applicants were also guided on the issues of statelessness 
and ways of obtaining their citizenship.
Other process issues include challenges in communication. Rejected applicants are often not informed of the reasons for 
their applications being rejected and thus, would not know how to address the gaps in their applications. The NRD also 
experiences a large number of uncollected approved citizenship certificates. Information on the whereabouts of applicants 
are not always updated, creating difficulties in contacting them and resulting in failure of collection.
Finally, there have been significant operational challenges due to the lack of appropriate resourcing. T o achieve this 
Blueprint’s targets related to citizenship and documentation, the MIB Implementation Unit will need to constitute a team 
sufficient in size, authority and capacity to work together with NRD and the Home Ministry on policy and processes as well 
as to collaborate effectively with field partners.
Malaysian Indian Blueprint 2017
119
<<<PAGE 122>>>
Moving Forward: Recommendations and Initiatives
A sense of national belonging starts with an individual 
being acknowledged as a citizen of the country. The 
Government takes this matter very seriously, as reflected 
by numerous awareness and registration campaigns such 
as ‘MyDaftar’. With this in mind, this Blueprint aims to 
achieve the following target:
Resolve stateless and documentation 
issue of the approximately 25,000 
Indians living in Malaysia, with priority 
on children and youth, within 5 years of 
MIB implementation.
•
T o deliver on this target, this Blueprint plans to effect the following: 
For example, explore automatic granting of birth certificates for hospital births, 
waiving the current 14-day claiming period
257
A Joint Task Force comprising senior officials from the Ministry of Home Affairs, NRD, the MIB Implementation Unit, and 
other relevant Government agencies is to be established. The primary tasks of the Joint Task Force would be to: 
Adequate provisions for resources in terms of mandate, 
personnel, and budget will be made within the MIB 
Implementation Unit to address the issue of statelessness 
and documentation. 
Identify, record, and expedite priority applications.
Revise service entitlements for intermediate or 
temporary citizenship certificates (e.g. MyKAS) 
particularly for the most vulnerable groups such as 
children and youth. At the same time, incentives will be 
provided, encouraging parents to submit applications 
for undocumented children for temporary certificates 
and school enrolment.
Explore changes to policies and procedures towards 
reducing the average processing time of documentation 
applications, and simplifying processes
257, particularly 
for children and youth.
T rack and report on processing times and status of all 
applications.
•
•
•
•
Institute a Joint CCIC-MoHA (NRD) Task Force1. 
CHAPTER 5
120
  Increasing Social Inclusion
<<<PAGE 123>>>
B. Religious Observance
By and large, Malaysia is a harmonious and tolerant multi-ethnic and multi-faith country. 
Freedom of religion is enshrined in Article 11 of the Federal Constitution, and this right is 
to be respected. Inter-ethnic tolerance and unity are firmly espoused, as evidenced by the 
Government’s call for ‘1Malaysia’.
However , instances of inter-ethnic tensions still arise and 
become more prominent when delicate situations are 
mishandled. The Malaysian Indian community has had its 
fair share of concerns, and over the years’ issues involving 
temple demolitions, as well as the use of spaces for religious 
ceremonies, have proven challenging. 
Religion remains central to the lives of the vast majority of 
Malaysians and it is important to find solutions that address 
the Indian community’s need for religious observance while 
continuing to respect the religious sensitivities of other faith 
communities.
Malaysian Indian Blueprint 2017
121
<<<PAGE 124>>>
SRI SUBRAMANIYA SWAMI DHEVASTHANAM, BATU CAVES
RM 2 Million given by the Government for construction and maintenance works.
At present, the advisory body for Non-Islamic Houses of Worship 
(RIBI) under the Ministry of Federal T erritories and Urban Wellbeing 
works with stakeholders to mediate relocation-related issues. The 
work of RIBI would be strengthened if a fair and orderly protocol 
governing the establishment, relocation and demolition of all 
houses of worship is communicated and widely recognised.
Fundamentally, the demolition of a 
temple is a legal issue although due to 
the emotive nature, it can be politicised 
and framed as a racial issue. 
Key Issues & Current Interventions
Between 2006 and 2007 , an 
estimated 79 temples were 
demolished, as reported by various 
news sources
258.
Cases of temple demolition and 
relocation can be segmented into 
two types: 
Pre-Independence temples, involving temples established before 
Independence, mostly in estates. 
Unregistered temples, which make up the largest number of cases 
in recent years. As the Malaysian Indian population grows, many 
newer temples have been built illegally on state-owned or private 
properties, contravening guidelines
259 for the establishment of 
non-Islamic houses of worship in Malaysia. 
•
•
Malhotra, Sunder “Is there any international outcry to stop demolishing Hindu 
temples in Malaysia?” (2007 , December 2) NRIInternet.com. Accessed at: http://
nriinternet.com/NRIhindu/MALAYSIA/Malaysia-demolshing_Hindu_T emples/
index.htm
Guideline issued by Islamic Affairs Unit, Prime Minister’s Department, ‘Cadangan 
Garis Panduan Pembinaan Rumah-Rumah Ibadat Bukan Islam’ & Malaysia Hindu 
Sangam’s, ‘T emple Guide Handbook’ 
258 259
CHAPTER 5
122
  Increasing Social Inclusion
<<<PAGE 125>>>
Completed
CrematoriumStatus Hall
Construction
In-Progress
Development/
Planning Stages
Includes land identification/negotiation, construction approval, funding, contrac-
tor/vendor selection, etc.
Source : Cabinet Committee on Indian Participation in Government Programs and Projects (CCIC)
260
In several engagements with stakeholders, the lack of 
initiative and/or transparency on the part of temples and other 
Indian religious institutions in serving their community was 
brought up repeatedly as an issue. Although some temples 
may be very active in their community, the lack of visibility in 
general needs to be addressed. Another challenge is related 
to the use of community halls. This is a problem that arises 
mostly in compact PPR neighborhoods where there is only 
one common hall and there are sensitivities in the use of 
the public halls due to differences in religious practice and 
culture.
On the other hand, temples should also 
play a greater part in contributing to the 
social development of the Malaysian Indian 
community. 
To address this, the CCIC has instructed the building of 15 community halls and 15 crematoriums in highly 
populated Malaysian Indian locations. 
2
4
9260
3
2
10
Malaysian Indian Blueprint 2017
123
<<<PAGE 126>>>
SRI SUBRAMANIAR SWAMY 
TEMPLE, KUALA SELANGOR
RM 150,000 given by the Government for 
construction and maintenance works. 
Moving Forward: Recommendations and Initiatives
This Blueprint aims to achieve 
the following targets:
Institute federal and state-accepted policies and procedures with regard to 
the establishment, registration and relocation of temples
Increase the social contribution of temples and other Indian houses of 
worship to the community
Resolve the issue of public hall usage, ensuring that there is sufficient 
supply and/or access to alternatives particularly in low-cost housing areas.
•
•
•
T o deliver on these targets, this Blueprint aims to effect the following: 
A collaboration between the MIB Implementation Unit, 
the Department of Urban and Rural Planning (“JPBD”), 
local councils, State Governments and key NGOs will be 
instituted to create an extensive temple database which 
tracks all temples, pre-empting any issues that may arise in 
the future.  
This database will also be used as a reference point for 
Federal and State Government compliance and mediation 
teams. For example, before the granting of funds for new 
temples, there will be an assessment by the Implementation 
and Coordination Unit, based on information on the temple 
database, to ensure that all building guidelines and 
documentation requirements for non-Islamic houses of 
worship have been properly complied with.
In response to community stakeholders’ demands 
for greater accountability and transparency, the MIB 
Implementation Unit will undertake a consultative study 
towards establishing a platform or means by which the 
social contribution and fiduciary duties of temples and other 
Malaysian Indian religious institutions may be assessed. 
The objective is not only to measure financial transparency 
and social contribution, but also to foster a spirit of 
healthy benchmarking and recognition for excellence. The 
modality of this assessment and monitoring function will be 
structured and detailed, with rollout targeted in 2018.
Establish a National Temple Database
Establish monitoring modality for
religious institutions
1. 
2. 
CHAPTER 5
124
  Increasing Social Inclusion
<<<PAGE 127>>>
SLIM RIVER COMMUNITY HALL
A RM 500,000 Indian community hall, one of 15 
halls promised by the Government for the Indian 
community. 
As CCIC continues to monitor the completion of the promised 
community halls and crematoriums, existing multipurpose 
halls, schools and temples in high Indian-populated areas 
will be identified for the use of the community. Gaps in 
supply at the local level will be noted and addressed by the 
MIB Implementation Unit together with the relevant local 
stakeholders. Public-private partnerships will be proposed 
if local conditions and the community’s needs warrant such 
arrangements.
The MIB Implementation Unit will also collaborate with the Department of Urban and Rural Planning (“JPBD”) and state 
governments to revise building design guidelines for low cost and medium cost housing developments, particularly flats. 
The objective is to address the needs of all races by adopting a design requirement allowing sufficient and well placed 
shared spaces, including halls for multi-religious ceremonial use. 
T o complement the above, the MIB Implementation Unit will work closely with the Department of National Unity 
and Integration (JPNIN), NGOs as well as local leaders of all races in identified Indian-heavy apartment blocks and 
neighbourhoods to improve inter-religious understanding and tolerance, including in the use of shared spaces.
Increase supply of public halls and 
tolerance for shared space usage 
3. 
Malaysian Indian Blueprint 2017
125
<<<PAGE 128>>>
C1. Representation in Public Life: Civil Service Recruitment & Advancement
Of the 1.6 million people working in the Malaysian civil service, only 4. 1% are Malaysian 
Indians261. In 2015, only  1, 157 Malaysian Indian applicants were accepted into the civil service, 
a small fraction of the  69,052 Indian applications received in that year 262. The declining 
number of Malaysian Indians in civil service has been observed since the 1980s; in 2004, 
the then Parliamentary Secretary disclosed that the percentage of Indian civil servants had 
dropped from 9.8% to 5.2% over a span of 23 years.
263
Public Services Commission of Malaysia (SPA) 2015 statistics.
Public Services Commission of Malaysia (SPA) 2015 statistics.
http://www.freemalaysiatoday.com/category/nation/2015/05/09/lack-of-non-
bumi-in-civil-service-must-be-addressed/
The majority of qualified Malaysian Indians may prefer to pursue careers in the 
private sector
Interviews with SITF and other stakeholders
261
262
263
264
265
Key Issues & Current Interventions
In April 2015, the Government announced the indefinite freezing of civil service recruitment 
for selected roles due to global economic uncertainties. However , temporary and contractual 
positions are still open for recruitment, according to various departments’ needs.
At the time of writing, SITF is 
working with the Public Services 
Department (“PSD”) to fill a 
representative proportion of 
temporary and contractual 
positions with qualified Malaysian 
Indian applicants. The low 
acceptance rate mentioned earlier 
reflects the major challenge of 
under-qualified Malaysian Indian 
candidates for these positions, 
as well as shortcomings in the 
application process.
264
Although the number of Indian applicants each year is high, the majority of these applicants are rejected due to reasons 
such as failure in meeting minimum academic requirements, failure in completing online applications correctly or on time 
and failure to perform in face-to-face interviews.
265
Targeted outreach, together with proper screening and guidance is needed to ensure that applicants pass the entry 
requirements.
CHAPTER 5
126
  Increasing Social Inclusion
<<<PAGE 129>>>
Moving Forward: Recommendations and Initiatives
The Blueprint has a target of increasing the proportion of Malaysian Indians in the Malaysian 
civil service to at least 7% at all grade levels, without compromising entry standards, within 
10 years of MIB implementation.
T o deliver on this target, this Blueprint aims to effect the following: 
The MIB Implementation Unit will work closely with the PSD to identify and set aside allocations for ‘Pekerja Sambilan 
Harian (PSH)’ and ‘Special Contract Appointees’. This will be supplemented with permanent positions within the civil 
service when hiring resumes.
At the same time, the MIB Implementation Unit will review current outreach efforts in order to identify and expand the 
applicant talent pool, particularly amongst the IB40. Outreach activities will be complemented with candidate screening 
and training workshops to prepare applicants for PSD tests and interviews.
In order to attract high achieving candidates to apply for the civil service, outreach efforts will be tailored accordingly. Senior 
Indian civil servants will be featured as role models and outreach ambassadors, towards attracting public-minded applicants.
Strengthen new recruits pipeline1. 
Malaysian Indian Blueprint 2017
127
<<<PAGE 130>>>
Working with the PSD, the MIB Implementation Unit will 
track the numbers of Malaysian Indians at all grades of 
the Malaysian civil service towards ensuring balanced 
representation, but without compromising on qualifications 
or experience.
Gaps in balanced representation will be addressed via a 
roadmap where high potential candidates are identified and 
groomed for advancement or transfer .
The MIB Implementation Unit will assess the ethnic balance of leadership and frontline personnel, in Indian-heavy 
locations, across key public services such as PDRM, Government hospitals and clinics, local authorities and others. Working 
with PSD and state governments, the MIB Implementation Unit will recommend the placement of Malaysian Indian officers 
in key posts within such locations as Sentul, Brickfields, Kajang and others towards improving linkages to the community 
thereby strengthening the quality of service and troubleshooting on the ground.
Track and address Malaysian Indian civil 
servants’ progression
Increase Placement of Indian Officers in Relevant Locations
2. 
3. 
CHAPTER 5
128
  Increasing Social Inclusion
<<<PAGE 131>>>
C2. Representation in Public Life: Crime
Involvement in crime, in particular criminal 
gangs, is a symptom of marginalisation from 
wider society. It has been reported that an 
estimated 70% of gangsters in Malaysia are 
of Indian origin.
266 Many are involved from 
a young age to fulfill a need for belonging 
and protection, as indicated in the ‘At-Risk 
Children & Youth’ section of the ‘Education’ 
chapter . Although some do leave gang 
activities as they mature, many go on to 
pursue a criminal career . 
Police Arrests by Race 
and Type of Crime 2015
This is borne out by data from the Royal 
Malaysian Police which shows a high 
proportion of violent crime amongst Indian 
arrests compared to other ethnicities.
267
Attributed to Bukit Aman’s CID director , as reported in “Indian gangs originated 
from Chinese triads” (2013, August 27) The Sun Daily. Accessed at: http://www.
thesundaily.my/news/808352
Violent crimes include murder , attempted murder , rape, incest, armed robbery, 
unarmed robbery, battery, etc. Source: Crime Investigation Unit, PDRM. 2014
266 267
Malaysian Indian Blueprint 2017
129
<<<PAGE 132>>>
Key Issues & Current Interventions
One of the main factors behind the relatively high crime rate among Malaysian Indians is the 
poor socioeconomic situation of this community. Lack of basic needs, poor education, and 
low income levels continue to push individuals down the path of crime and gangs. 
More needs to be done to prevent gang recruitment as well as to help current members exit safely. Support could be 
strengthened, at both the community and national levels, for ex-offenders who have served time in prison. Ex-offenders 
often face challenges fitting in, including discrimination from the community, which may force them back into former ways. 
Although the Prisons Department has a structured rehabilitation programme for offenders undergoing their sentences, 
more support is needed at the post-release stage, which is the most crucial time in their reintegration process. 
CHAPTER 5
130
  Increasing Social Inclusion
<<<PAGE 133>>>
Moving Forward: Recommendations and Initiatives
This Blueprint targets to reduce over-representation of Malaysian Indians in crime and 
police arrests within 10 years of MIB implementation.
T o deliver on this target, this Blueprint aims to effect the following: 
A multi-pronged approach will be taken towards this end. 
For more elaboration on the initiatives to be implemented, 
see the ‘Basic Needs’, ‘Education’ and ‘Income Upliftment’ 
chapters. 
In collaboration with the Prisons Department and other key 
stakeholders, the MIB Implementation Unit will establish 
an initiative to pilot and scale an initiative designed to 
support the rehabilitation of Indian prison inmates as well 
as to support their transition to normal life and employment 
post-release. A key module of the initiative is to involve ex-
offenders in identifying and counseling potential future 
offenders away from a life of crime.
Ensure Educational and Socioeconomic 
Upliftment of the IB40 Group
Establish National Support Initiative for 
Indian Offenders and Ex-Offenders
1. 2. 
Malaysian Indian Blueprint 2017
131
<<<PAGE 134>>>
C3. Representation in Public Life: Community Identity
No ethnic group is spared from racial stereotypes and generalisations, both negative and positive. While stereotypes are 
often used jokingly, nonetheless it can be internalised and taken as objective truth, by those within and outside the ethnic 
group. When negative stereotypes are believed by people of the ethnic group in question, it can bring down self-esteem 
and lead to experiences of ‘stereotype threat’ where performance in education and other endeavours is undermined. When 
negative stereotypes are believed by people outside the ethnic group, particularly those who have limited contact with other 
ethnic groups, discrimination can occur .
Negative stereotypes would disproportionately affect lower income segments within the Malaysian Indian community as 
they would not have the compensating impact afforded by class. T o enable these segments to progress, there is a strong 
need to break away from negative stereotypes and to take on a more empowering community narrative. 
CHAPTER 5
132
  Increasing Social Inclusion
<<<PAGE 135>>>
There have been cases of racial slurs against Indians made by authoritative figures, though such cases are generally met 
with public disapproval 268. More seriously, negative stereotypes can lead to unfair treatment such as job discrimination; 
there are also media-reported cases of Indians being rejected as tenants by non-Indian landlords. At the extreme, negative 
stereotypes coupled with lack of cultural understanding can also fuel inter-ethnic clashes, as evidenced by ethnic clashes 
in the past
269. 
T o date, the bulk of efforts to highlight positive examples and change the narrative of the Malaysian Indian community has 
been limited to the community itself. A concerted effort needs to be made to bring this conversation to the national level.
“Malaysia: Indians demand apology in racial slur case” (2008, August 6) News18.
com. Accessed at: http://www.news18.com/news/india/malaysia-indians-demand-
apology-in-racial-slur-case-294267 .html
In March 2001, a violent clash between Malay and Indian groups was triggered in 
Kampung Medan, Petaling Jaya, by an argument over road access for an Indian 
funeral possession and a Malay wedding party.  The violence spread over 3 weeks to 
the surrounding areas, resulting in 6 deaths and over a hundred people wounded. 
Source: media reports.
268 269
Key Issues & Current Interventions
Negative stereotypes of the Malaysian Indian community can relate to physical attributes such 
as skin colour , cultural and religious practices as well as social factors such as alcoholism, 
violence and involvement in crime and gangs.
Malaysian Indian Blueprint 2017
133
<<<PAGE 136>>>
Measurement to be developed, and baseline measured, in 2017 .270
Moving Forward: Recommendations and Initiatives
The Blueprint targets to improve perceptions of the Malaysian Indian community by those 
within and outside the community.270
T o deliver on this target, this Blueprint aims to effect the following: 
This campaign aims to create national level awareness of Malaysian Indian achievement stories across different sectors, 
working hand in hand with other Malaysian ethnicities, by promoting outstanding individuals and teams, such as writers, 
educators, entrepreneurs, scientists, philanthropists, sports personalities, artists and young achievers. Sports, in particular , 
would provide recognition to the community in a tangible way, especially amongst the youth. As part of this campaign, 
the MIB will work with ministries, agencies, NGOs and corporate partners to enhance Malaysian Indian participation in the 
sports arena.
Voices on Malaysian 
Indian achievement 
and contribution to 
the fabric of Malaysian 
society should come 
from all races to 
underscore the spirit of 
true integration. Stories 
of IB40 achievements 
will also be highlighted 
to break stereotypes 
associated with both 
ethnicity and class.
Establish A ‘Community Pride’ Campaign 
CHAPTER 5
134
  Increasing Social Inclusion
<<<PAGE 137>>>
This public awareness campaign also seeks to create desire for change within the Malaysian 
Indian community in general, and troubled families in particular , to counter community 
stereotypes related to ‘normalised’ dysfunctions such as alcohol overconsumption and 
violence. This campaign will be accompanied by an information and referral service to 
support families that come forward with questions or requests for assistance.
Malaysian Indian Blueprint 2017
135135
<<<PAGE 138>>>

<<<PAGE 139>>>
CHAPTER
6
Delivering The 
Malaysian Indian  
Blueprint

<<<PAGE 140>>>
At a high level the Malaysian Indian community has 
prospered together with the country: mean and median 
incomes for Indians as a group are slightly higher than the 
national average. Nevertheless, these figures mask deep 
intra-ethnic inequalities. Without focused policy attention, 
circumstances will solidify the existence of an Indian sub-
class that is excluded from mainstream socioeconomic 
development and wellbeing.
Acknowledging the great societal costs involved, the Government established a Cabinet Committee on Indian Participation 
in Government Programs and Projects (CCIC) in 2008 to review the state of affairs in a dedicated manner and to prioritise 
areas for action. Four delivery units were gradually established to address the identified areas: the Special Implementation 
Task Force (SITF) which has played a major role towards resolving a significant number of citizenship and documentation 
cases; the Action Plan for Future of Tamil Schools  (PTST); the Special Secretariat for Empowerment of Indian Entrepreneurs 
(SEED) which provides support services to Indian entrepreneurs and businesses; and finally the Unit for Socio-Economic 
Development of the Indian Community (SEDIC) which funds socio-economic development programs. 
The units have pursued their mandates and have brought about a difference in their respective areas. Since their 
establishment, and in partnership with the relevant Government agencies as well as NGOs, several positive outcomes have 
been achieved including: a leap in investments into Tamil school infrastructure with accompanying improvements in teacher 
qualifications; funding facilitation for over  29, 115 Indian SMEs; hundreds of community-based programs tackling various 
challenges from getting into university to upskilling single mothers; and over 6,000 Indians coming forward to register for 
citizenship documentation.
Including non-Malaysian citizens e.g. migrant workers. Source: 2015 Population 
Estimates, Department of Statistics Malaysia.
271
The Indian community is an integral part of Malaysian society, a key pillar of the country’s 
economic development, cultural richness and national identity. At 7% of the total 
population, Malaysian Indians comprise the second largest ethnic minority group living 
in Malaysia. 
271
Implementation & Governance
CHAPTER 6
138
Delivering The Malaysian Indian Blueprint138
<<<PAGE 141>>>
While the relevant Government agencies continued to perform their respective roles, the presence of these four special 
units as complementary partners were instrumental in raising awareness amongst the Indian community, encouraging and 
facilitating participation in existing Government programs and supplementing with Indian-centric content or delivery where 
appropriate.
In pursuing these mandates, several lessons emerged and improvements were proposed by community stakeholders 
towards strengthening the implementation modality. Cohesion across the four units was urged to maximise synergies from 
a unified sense of mission as well as more effective use of shared knowledge, resources, information, research, networks 
and best practices. Greater use of data, target setting and performance tracking was also advocated.
Malaysian Indian Blueprint 2017
139
<<<PAGE 142>>>
Educational Attainment & Youth. The 
mandate of this policy area goes beyond 
Tamil schools and covers performance of 
Indian students up to tertiary level as well as 
at-risk children & youth.
Income Upliftment. The mandate 
of this policy area covers both 
entrepreneurship as well as 
employment i.e. skills training and 
job placements. This policy area 
also encompasses financial health 
and wealth-building particularly 
amongst the IB40.
Welfare & Foundations. This policy area 
addresses the challenges faced by the 
most vulnerable groups in the Indian 
community including but not limited to the 
absolute poor , those without housing and/
or healthcare, those with documentation 
issues and those at risk of displacement 
from estates.
Identity & Inclusion. This policy 
area seeks to resolve issues related 
to religious observance as well as 
other religious, cultural or political 
issues that can marginalise Indians 
as a community e.g. negative racial 
stereotyping and discrimination.
In  light of the above, the following implementation approach will be established
to deliver the Indian Community Blueprint from 2017 to 2030.
1
2
4
The development of this Blueprint also necessitates a consolidation in implementation 
modality to address the additional policy areas outlined and to achieve the Blueprint 
targets in these areas. These policy areas are as follows:
3
CHAPTER 6
140
Delivering The Malaysian Indian Blueprint
<<<PAGE 143>>>
The MIB implementation entity has a strong sense 
of shared mission towards holistic upliftment of the 
Malaysian Indian community particularly the IB40
The MIB implementation entity maximises inter-unit 
cooperation and learning
The MIB implementation entity pursues the 
socioeconomic development and wellbeing of 
the Malaysian Indian community in the context of 
integrating into the fabric of Malaysian society
The MIB implementation entity leverages talent, 
knowledge, ideas and resources from all corners of 
society
The MIB implementation entity has the position, 
authority and credibility to work effectively within 
Government
The MIB implementation entity measures its impact 
and refines its programs systematically and cost-
effectively
The MIB implementation entity continuously 
improves its effectiveness by applying research, best 
practices, data and networks
The MIB implementation entity ‘plugs into’ existing 
Government programs, working in concert with 
relevant implementation agencies and platforms
The MIB implementation entity will progressively 
working towards ensuring that Indian participation 
is addressed by and integrated into all relevant 
Government agencies as a matter of policy and 
practice in the long term
272
•
•
•
•
•
•
 •
•
•
Cohesion
Inclusiveness
Impact
Integration
A monitoring function will remain after 2030 to track the community’s status and 
participation rates
272
Delivering the Malaysian 
Indian Blueprint: Principles
The implementation approach or modality of the Malaysian 
Indian Blueprint is guided by the following four core principles:
Malaysian Indian Blueprint 2017
141141
<<<PAGE 144>>>
A. Modality & Structure
The overall governance function carried out by the CCIC will continue and be supported by 
a CCIC Executive Committee that meets monthly to resolve inter-agency implementation 
issues and to track progress. 
In cases where there are supplementary modules or new non-overlapping 
initiatives, the units will continue to carry out their role of implementer or joint-
implementer
273
The units under the CCIC will continue to carry out their roles of outreach and facilitation 273 in partnership with the main 
implementation ministries and agencies. For greater cohesion and to cover the scope of the Blueprint, the units will be 
reorganised and merged into one entity, assuming the name and legal charter of the existing Unit for the Socioeconomic 
Development of the Indian Community (SEDIC). This entity will be the main agency driving the delivery of the Malaysian 
Indian Blueprint. 
The new SEDIC will comprise of four reorganised sub-units, in line with the policy areas outlined above, as well as new 
supporting functions in research and special projects piloting. The function of present-day SEDIC in funding various 
community-based programs will be absorbed across the four reorganised sub-units, as appropriate to the respective policy 
areas to be covered. T ogether with relevant Government policy-making ministries and implementation agencies, the sub-
units will undertake and/or facilitate the initiatives recommended in this Blueprint as well as to make or propose course 
corrections where appropriate.
The CCIC and the CCIC Executive Committee will be supported by communications and performance tracking functions 
that report to the two committees.
CHAPTER 6
142
Delivering The Malaysian Indian Blueprint
<<<PAGE 145>>>
T o ensure close ties to active community stakeholders, a SEDIC consultative and advisory board will be established 
comprising leaders in civil society, research, commerce and social enterprise. SEDIC will also engage the community on 
Blueprint matters via outreach and engagement programs e.g. townhall events.
The overall delivery modality and structure is shown below:
Malaysian Indian Blueprint 2017
143
<<<PAGE 146>>>
B. Public Private Partnership
The success of the Blueprint will depend not only on close cooperation amongst 
Government agencies but also on the involvement of non-Governmental actors including 
NGOs, companies and individuals. The implementation of the Malaysian Indian Blueprint is 
premised on enabling the involvement of all sectors, be it in the form of domain expertise, 
funds, professional services or other forms of contribution.
One form of public private partnership already being 
pursued by the 4 CCIC units is funding or part-funding 
programs carried out by NGOs and other types of service 
providers. During the Blueprint implementation period, this 
form of partnership will be strengthened by undertaking a 
more structured approach towards defining and targeting 
the types of programs to be funded, towards achieving the 
Blueprint targets. Platforms for sharing best practices and 
building capacity amongst NGOs or service providers will be 
established so that excellent performers can scale up and 
assist or merge with other providers.
Another form of public private partnership is the engagement of active community stakeholders particularly in matters 
related to policy and programmatic impact. As mentioned above, a SEDIC consultative and advisory board will be established, 
to be supplemented with outreach and engagement programs. Each sub-unit of SEDIC may also establish advisory working 
groups comprising subject matter experts, field workers, researchers and other contributors.
The final form of public private partnership that will be pursued more actively during the Blueprint implementation period 
is joint funding and/or joint implementation of initiatives and programs proposed by the Blueprint. Several initiatives would 
benefit from private sector and corporate social responsibility (CSR) support not only in supplementary funding but also 
the contribution of knowledge, project management and personnel. Various models can be applied subject to the type 
of initiative, from the trust school model under Khazanah Nasional Berhad’s Yayasan Amir to the multi-partner model of 
Yayasan Peneraju Pendidikan Bumiputera. Incentives to encourage such public private partnerships will be developed, for 
example tax incentives.
CHAPTER 6
144
Delivering The Malaysian Indian Blueprint
<<<PAGE 147>>>
C. Impact & Phasing
The progress and impact of the Blueprint will be assessed on the achievement of the headline 
targets outlined in this document. As such, the Blueprint targets will effectively become key 
performance indicators (KPIs) for the relevant ministries, agencies and units involved in 
Blueprint implementation.
Baselining will be a key activity in 2017 , in order to set 
the starting point for several Blueprint targets. The new 
SEDIC, the CCIC Performance T racking unit and the CCIC 
Communications unit will be responsible for publishing an 
annual report on the delivery of the Blueprint.
The indicators of Blueprint impact may be refined or 
supplemented from time to time, based on the experience 
of implementation or new information or other factors. The 
majority of targets are set for full achievement by the 10th 
year of the Blueprint launch, 2027 .
Complete reorganisation and staffing of units
Integration of Blueprint goals and targets into 
implementing partner ministries’ and agencies’ 
policies as well as annual and mid-term plans & 
budgets
Launch of flagship initiatives and partnership platforms
Furnish database and measure baselines for relevant 
indicators
All initiatives running, with annual review and 
refinement processes undertaken
Begin handover and mainstreaming of initiatives and 
targets into selected Government ministries/agencies
Review of role of SEDIC vis-a-vis Governmental 
implementation partners
Full integration/hand-off of initiatives and targets to 
Governmental implementation partners
Consolidation of monitoring function under the Prime 
Minister’s Department to ensure Malaysian Indian 
targets and/or KPIs are measured and delivered by 
Government ministries and agencies
All initiatives running, with annual review and 
refinement processes undertaken
Mid-point review of Blueprint target achievements and 
course corrections, if applicable
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
The phasing of Blueprint implementation is as follows:
2017-2018: Consolidation and Baselining 2022-2026: Second Half Implementation
2027-2030: Mainstreaming2019-2021: First Half Implementation
Malaysian Indian Blueprint 2017
145
<<<PAGE 148>>>
GLOSSARY146
1AZAM Akhiri Zaman Miskin
ABIM Angkatan Belia Islam Malaysia
ADTEC Pusat Latihan T eknologi Tinggi
AIM  Amanah Ikhtiar Malaysia
AS1M Amanah Saham 1Malaysia
ASW Amanah Saham Wawasan
B40 Bottom 40%
BM Bahasa Melayu
BR1M Bantuan Rakyat 1Malaysia
CCIC Cabinet Committee for Indian Community
CEDAR Centre for Entrepreneur Development and Research
CGPA Cumulative Grade Point Average
CHILD CHILD Information, Learning and Development Centre
CID Criminal Investigation Department
CSR Corporate Social Responsibility
DFI Development Financial Institutions
DHRRA Development of Human Resources in Rural Area
DLP Dual-Language Program
DOS Department of Statistics
DOW Department of Welfare
EKASIH Sistem Maklumat Kemiskinan Negara
EPF Employees Provident Fund
EPU Economic Planning Unit
ETP Economic T ransformation Programme
EWRF Educational, Welfare & Research Foundation Malaysia
GDP Gross Domestic Product
GEMS Graduate Employability Management Scheme
GLC Government Linked Companies
GMI German-Malaysian Institute
GPN Gred Purata Nasional
HINDRAF Hindu Rights Action Force
HIS Household Income Survey
IB40 Indian Households in the B40 Income Segment
ICT Information & Communication T echnology
ICU Implementation Coordination Unit
IKBN Institut Kemahiran Belia Negara
ILKS Institute Latihan Kemahiran Swasta
ILP Institut Latihan Perindustrian
IM40 Indian Households in the M40 Income Segment
IPTA I Institut Pengajian Tinggi Awam; Public Institution of Higher Education
IPTS Institut Pengajian Tinggi Swasta
JPBD Jabatan Perancangan Bandar Dan Desa; Department of Urban and Rural Planning
JPK Jabatan Pembangunan Kemahiran
<<<PAGE 149>>>
147GLOSSARY
JPN Jabatan Pendaftaran Negara
JPNIN Jabatan Perpaduan Negara & Integrasi Nasional
JTK Jabatan T enaga Kerja
KAR1SMA Kebajikan Rakyat 1Malaysia
KEMAS Jabatan Kemajuan Masyarakat
KITA Institut Kajian Etnik, UKM
KPI Key Performance Indicators
KPKT Kementerian Kesejahteraan Bandar , Perumahan dan Kerajaan T empatan
KPM Kementerian Pelajaran Malaysia
KPWKM Kementerian Pembangunan Wanita, Keluarga dan Masyarakat
KR1M Kedai Rakyat 1Malaysia
LEAP Leaders Entrepreneurship Acceleration Programme
M40 Middle 40%
MEB Malaysia Education Blueprint
MHS Malaysia Hindu Sangam
MIB Malaysian Indian Blueprint
MIDF Malaysian Industrial Development Finance Berhad
MIFA Malaysian Indian Football Association
MISC Malaysian Indian Sports Council
MOE Ministry of Education
MOF Ministry of Finance
MOH Ministry of Health
MOHA Ministry of Home Affairs
MOHE Ministry of Higher Education
MOHR Ministry of Human Resources
MPI Multi-dimensional Poverty Index
MYS Ministry of Youth & Sports
NGO Non-Governmental Organisations
NKEA National Key Economic Area
NRD National Registration Department
OECD Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development
PADU Program Angkat dan Upaya
PASTI Pusat Asuhan T unas Islam
PDRM Polis Diraja Malaysia
PLI Poverty Line Income
PMR Penilaian Menengah Rendah
PNB Permodalan Nasional Berhad
POL2.0 People’s Own Language Program
PPP Public Private Partnership
PPR Program Perumahan Rakyat
PSD Public Service Department
PSH Pekerja Sambilan Harian
PT3 Pentaksiran Tingkatan 3
<<<PAGE 150>>>
GLOSSARY148
PTST Action Plan for Tamil Schools
RAPID Refinery and Petrochemical Integrated Development
RIBI Non-Islamic Houses of Worship
RIMUP Rancangan Integrasi Murid Untuk Perpaduan
ROC Registry of Companies Malaysia
SEDIC Unit Khas Program Pembangunan Sosioekonomi Masyarakat India
SEED Secretariat for Empowerment of Indian Entrepreneurs
SIRDC Strategic Information and Research Development Centre
SITF Special Implementation Task Force on the Indian Community
SJKC Sekolah Jenis Kebangsaan Cina
SJKT Sekolah Jenis Kebangsaan Tamil
SKRE Skim Khas Pembiayaan Rumah Pekerja Estet
SLIM Skim Latihan 1Malaysia
SME Small Medium Enterprise
SPA Suruhanjaya Perkhidmatan Awam
SPM Sijil Pelajaran Malaysia
SPUMI Skim Pembangunan Usahawan Masyarakat India
SRK Sekolah Rendah Kebangsaan
STEM Science, T echnology, Engineering and Mathematics
T20 T op 20%
TEKUN Tabung Ekonomi Kumpulan Usaha Niaga
TVET T echnical and Vocational Education and T raining
UKM University Kebangsaan Malaysia
UPSR Ujian Pencapaian Sekolah Rendah 
<<<PAGE 151>>>
CHAPTER 1: INTRODUCTION
2014 Household Income Survey, Department of Statistics, Malaysia.
Refer to ‘Economic Challenges’ sub-section in this chapter
Climbing the Ladder; Socioeconomic Mobility in Malaysia. Khazanah Research Institute, October 2016 
Including non-Malaysian citizens e.g. migrant workers. Source:  2016 Population Estimates, 
Department of Statistics, Malaysia.
Moorthy, Ravichandran (2016) “Ethnic Indians in Malaysia: History and Issues of Development” in 
Denison, J & Nathan, KS (Eds.) Contemporary Malaysian Indians, Bangi: KITA, pp. 39-56.
Marimuthu, T (2016) “The Malaysian Indian Community: Continuing Concerns” in Denison, J & 
Nathan, KS (Eds.) Contemporary Malaysian Indians, Bangi: Institute of Ethnic Studies UKM, pp. 95-
1 07.
Nagarajan, S (2009) “Marginalisation and Ethnic Relations: The Indian Malaysian Experience” in 
Lim, TG; Gomes, A & Rahman, A (Eds.) Multiethnic Malaysia: Past, Present and Future, Petaling Jaya: 
SIRDC.
Moorthy, op. cit.
Marimuthu, T , op. cit.
Moorthy, op. cit.
Household Income and Expenditure 2014 Report furnished by Minister in the Prime Minister’s 
Department, Tan Sri Abdul Wahid Omar , in a written reply to Ampang MP Zuraida Kamaruddin. 
As reported in “Bumis majority of top earners - but disparity widest, too” (2015, November 26) 
Malaysiakini. Accessed at: https://www.malaysiakini.com/news/321081
The Economic Report 2015/2016 indicates the following as the minimum and maximum ranges for 
Malaysia’s income segments: Bottom 40% earn below RM3,855; Middle 40% earn between RM3855 
and RM8,319; and T op 20% earn above RM8,319
The Gini coefficient is an index from 0 to 1 measuring income inequality: the higher the number , the 
higher the inequality.
2014 Household Income Survey, Department of Statistics, Malaysia.
International studies such as Joumard I, Pisu M, Bloch D (2012), Tackling Income Inequality: The role 
of taxes and transfers, OECD Journal and the Malaysia Economic Report 2016/2017 have noted that 
cash transfers (BR1M) has its impact in reducing income inequality as well as partly contributing to the 
reduction in the share of households in the low-income group.
2014 Household Income Survey, Department of Statistics, Malaysia.
2010 Population Distribution and Basic Demographic Census, Department of Statistics, Malaysia.
Marimuthu, op. cit.
Labour Force Survey Report, 2014
Professor Mahendhiran Nair (2014)“Equitable & Inclusive Economic Development: The Current State 
of Socioeconomic Development of Malaysian Indians”
Lin, Mui Kiang (2016) “Millennium Development Goals & The Indian Community: Focus On The 
Bottom 40 Percent” in Denison, J & Nathan, KS (Eds.) Contemporary Malaysian Indians, Bangi: 
Institute of Ethnic Studies UKM, pp. 239-262.
ENDNOTE
1,2,3
4
5
6
7,8,9,10,
11,12,13,14
15,16,17,18
19
20
21,22,23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30,31,32
33
34
35
36
37
NO.
LIST OF ENDNOTES 149
<<<PAGE 152>>>
CHAPTER 1: INTRODUCTION
Employment Rates By Ethnicity And Age Group 2015 by Penyiasatan T enaga Buruh, Jabatan 
Perangkaan Malaysia
Labour Force Survey Report, 2014
Suruhanjaya Syarikat Malaysia (SSM), 2009 - 2013
Malaysian Indian Economic Development Report For RMK-11 by SEED Steering Committee.
2010 Characteristics of Households Survey, Department of Statistics, Malaysia
Muhammed Abdul Khalid, PhD, UKM, (2011) “NEP to NEM: Who Cares? Wealth Distribution in 
Malaysia”
Education and Social Characteristics of The Population (2010) Department of Statistics, Malaysia
Bennett, J (2008) Early Childhood Services in the OECD Countries: Review of the literature and 
current policy in the early childhood field: UNICEF Innocenti Research Centre and Duncan, JG, 
Magnuson, K (2013) Investing in Preschool Programs: Journal of Economic Perspective Vol.27 No.2 
pp. 109-132 (24)
Action Plan for The Future of Tamil Schools Unit (PTST) 2014
Malaysian Education Blueprint 2013-2025
Interviews with Prof. Datuk Dr . NS Rajendran (PTST & SEDIC).
Malaysian Education Blueprint 2013-2025
Ministry of Education. This does not include enhanced operational expenditure for teaching staff 
salaries
Government-aided schools are schools set up and run by non-governmental stakeholders but are 
partially supported with Government funds.  Government schools are set up and run by the MOE
Nagappan, R; Maniam, M; Periasamy, S; Rao, R; Devarajoo, K & Velu, J (2012) Exploring Remove 
Classes in Malaysia; A Study to Evaluate Their Effectiveness Kuala Lumpur: EWRF .
Ministry of Education
Enrolment Statistics of Indian children in MOE-Registered Schools - 2014, Ministry of Education 
Malaysia.
Public tertiary institutions, also referred to as Public Institutions of Higher Education (IPTA).
Ismail, Noor Azina (2011) “Graduates’ Characteristics and Unemployment: A Study Among Malaysian 
Graduates”, International Journal of Business and Social Science, Vol. 2 No. 16, p. 94.
NGO Development of Human Resources for Rural Areas’ (DHRRA) mapping and identification 
exercise. A stateless individual has no citizenship documentation; an individual with documentation 
issues have temporary identification documents (e.g. red Identity Card) but face problems in proving 
Malaysian birth and acquiring permanent identification documents. However , a nationwide census on 
the exact number of undocumented Indians must be carried out by the implementation entity.
Due to public attention, there has been increased effort in recent years by plantation companies 
and state governments to resettle estate workers in new low-cost housing; it is usually a protracted 
negotiation process with multiple stakeholders and success is very much on a case-by-case basis
Number of Estate Workers By Ethnicity (2015), Jabatan T enaga Kerja
ENDNOTE
38
39
40
41
42
43
44
45
46
47
48
49
50
51
52
53
54,55
56
57
58
59
60
NO.
CHAPTER 1: INTRODUCTION
ENDNOTENO.
150LIST OF ENDNOTES150 LIST OF ENDNOTES
<<<PAGE 153>>>
CHAPTER 1: INTRODUCTION
There are also Indians still living in squatter areas and temporary longhouses that have not been 
resettled in decades. The numbers are unknown but field workers perceive it to be dwindling due to 
the Government’s ‘zero squatter’ policy
T enth Malaysia Plan Recommendations: Malaysian Indians & The New Economic Model, Institute of 
Ethnic Studies (KITA), University Kebangsaan Malaysia (UKM)
Laporan Statistik 2014, Department of Social Welfare Malaysia
Attributed to Bukit Aman’s CID director , as reported in “Indian gangs originated from Chinese triads” 
(2013, August 27) The Sun Daily. Accessed at: http://www.thesundaily.my/news/808352
Interview with PDRM
Crime involving murder , attempted murder , rape, incest, armed robbery or battery/manslaughter . 
Note: Other ethnicities account for the remainder 7% of violent crime arrests.
The Malaysian Government defines poverty as a lack of monetary ability to support basic needs 
consisting of food and non-food components, such as healthcare, education, house rental, clothing, 
transportation and recreation. The poverty line is set based on a minimum ‘basket’ of goods 
comprising these components. Source: ‘Urban Poverty and Inequality in Malaysia: Empowerment of 
Malaysian Indians through the Neighbourhood-Based Social Service Programme’ by Chamhuri Siwar 
in the book ‘Contemporary Malaysian Indians’
Hardcore poverty is defined as a chronic lack of ability to support the most basic needs of survival. 
Historically, this is set at half of the poverty line i.e. RM465. Source: 11th Malaysia Plan
Number of Estate Workers By Ethnicity (2015), Jabatan T enaga Kerja
Interviews with Government officers, NGOs and other stakeholders
In line with the 11th Malaysia Plan target of doubling the mean and median monthly income of B40 
households by 2020
Baseline to be set in 2017 based on survey of savings levels of poor Malaysian Indian households 
registered in e-Kasih database
Cases occurring before 2017
Based on baseline of end 2016
Hardcore poverty stands at 0. 1% of total households. Source: 11th Malaysia Plan
Reflected in the shift towards a Multi-dimensional Poverty Index (MPI) in the 11th Malaysia Plan
Average household size is 4.3 people. Source: Implementation Coordination Unit
The PLI for each household is different according to location, household size and consumption 
pattern, amongst other factors. A household may be earning above the national poverty line but still 
be considered as poor i.e. below their specific household PLI, which depends on the household’s 
traits.
ENDNOTE
ENDNOTE
61
62
63
64
65
66
67
68
69
70
71
72
73
74
75
76
77
78
NO.
NO.
ENDNOTENO.
CHAPTER 2: ADDRESSING FOUNDATIONS
151LIST OF ENDNOTES
<<<PAGE 154>>>
Household Income Survey 2014. Department of Statistics, Malaysia
Household Income Survey, 2012. Department of Statistics, Malaysia. The difference of around 19,000 
households reflects differences in household size, location and other factors
The Bumiputera poverty problem on the other hand is split equally between urban and rural. Source: 
Household Income and Basic Amenities Survey 2014
eKasih is a primary, but not sole, source for program selection by implementation agencies. Source: 
ICU
For example, the high public awareness of BR1M is partly due to the simple language and multiple-
channel approach of BR1M’s public education and outreach campaigns. Source: Interviews with field 
workers
Although implementation agencies may use their discretionary powers to deliver assistance to 
undocumented Indians
Documentation issues are covered more fully in Chapter 4, ‘Increasing Social Inclusion’.
Registration in the database does not automatically translate into receipt of assistance; 
implementation agencies have relevant screening and selection criteria for different programs
Program Kebajikan Rakyat 1Malaysia (KAR1SMA) is a productive welfare assistance program aimed 
towards helping senior citizens, poor children, the disabled and widows to police or army personnel.  
Source:  1Malaysia.com
Ministry of Women, Family and Community Development (KPWKM)
For example, language used
Interviews with Government officials and field workers
T erma Rujukan Pengurusan Projek Rintis 2 Years Exit Programme, Jabatan Kebajikan Masyarakat, 
2014
Face-to-face survey of 2,087 Malaysian Indians in B40 households throughout Peninsular Malaysia 
conducted in July to September 2016. MIB Secretariat
In line with 11th Malaysia Plan target
Baseline to be set in 2017 based on survey of savings levels of poor Malaysian Indian households 
registered in eKasih database
Matching ratio to be determined by scheme T echnical Committee comprised of the Blueprint 
Implementation Unit and MOF , amongst others
2010 Characteristics of Households Survey, Department of Statistics, Malaysia
‘NEP to NEM: Who Cares? Wealth Distribution in Malaysia’, Muhammed Abdul Khalid, UKM, 2011
11th Malaysian Plan
Face-to-face survey of 2,087 Malaysian Indians in B40 households throughout Peninsular Malaysia 
conducted in July to September 2016. MIB Secretariat
Reasons include lack of sufficient income documentation, particularly for contract or day workers.
Due to public attention, there has been increased effort in recent years by plantation companies 
and state governments to resettle estate workers in new low-cost housing; it is usually a protracted 
negotiation process with multiple stakeholders and success is very much on a case-by-case basis
ENDNOTE
79
80
81
82
83
84
85
86
87
88
89
90
91
92,93
94
95
96
97
98
99
100
101
102
NO. ENDNOTENO.
CHAPTER 2: ADDRESSING FOUNDATIONS
152 LIST OF ENDNOTES
<<<PAGE 155>>>
CHAPTER 2: ADDRESSING FOUNDATIONS
CHAPTER 3: REALISING EACH CHILD’S POTENTIAL
Number of Estate Workers By Ethnicity (2015), Jabatan T enaga Kerja
Interview with the National Union of Plantation Workers and field experts
This is an initiative undertaken by Jabatan T enaga Kerja (JTK) to assist the existing plantation workers 
in housing ownership. Source: “Kajian Tahap Sosioekonomi Pekerja Estet T empatan dan Kaitannya 
dengan SKRE”, Jabatan T enaga Kerja, 2014
Applicants are also subject to credit assessment and approval by the banking channel partner , Bank 
Simpanan Nasional. Conditions may need to be reviewed, given high rejection rates (81%)
Kementerian Kesejahteraan Bandar , Perumahan Dan Kerajaan T empatan (KPKT)
Due to prevailing terms related to minimum income levels, employment status and size of estate
Cases occurring before 2017
Interviews with Government officers, NGOs and other stakeholders
‘Aspirations of Malaysian Indians T owards 2020’ written by Dr . Denison Jayasooria, 2015
Malaysia Family Well-being Index, 2011
Laporan Statistik Jabatan Kebajikan Masyarakat 2014
Interviews with agencies and community workers
Interviews with Government agencies
‘Current drinker’ is defined as those who have consumed alcoholic beverages for the past 12 months 
while ‘binge drinker’ refers to those who consume large quantities of alcoholic beverages (six or more 
drinks) in a single session. Source: National Health & Morbidity Survey 2015 - Non-Communicable 
Diseases, Risk Factors & Other Health Problems, Ministry of Health
Based on baseline of end 2016
Supply-side interventions against alcohol overconsumption is tackled in the Inclusion chapter
Haveman, Robert & Smeeding, Timothy (2006) “The Role of Higher Education in Social Mobility” The 
Future of Children Vol. 16 No. 2 pp. 125-150
Education and Social Characteristics of The Population (2010) Department of Statistics, Malaysia
The gap pertains to a number of areas, including preschool education, infrastructure and facilities, 
teachers and teacher training, students and academic achievement, location of schools, curriculum, 
remedial and special education, leadership, the involvement of parents and the community, and 
financial matters
PTST
Socio-Economic Development of the Indian Community Unit
ENDNOTE
ENDNOTE
103
104,105
106
107
108
109
110
111
112
113
114,115,116
117
118,119
120
121
122
123
124
125
126
127
NO.
NO.
LIST OF ENDNOTES 153
<<<PAGE 156>>>
Dropout rates do not include those identified for streaming into TVET and/or enrolment into at-risk 
children & youth programs
As measured against the 2016/17 baseline
In line with the Malaysian Education Blueprint which aims to ensure 100% preschool enrolment by 
2020
Risk assessment tools to be developed and implemented in 2017/18 based on risk factors identified 
by field practitioners, such as family environment, substance usage, personal disposition etc.
Greenstone, M; Looney, A; Patashnik, J; & Yu, M (2013) Thirteen Economic Facts about Social Mobility 
and the Role of Education, Policy Memo for The Hamilton Project
“Class and family in America: Minding the nurture gap” (2015, March 21) The Economist. Accessed 
at: http://www.economist.com/news/books-and-arts/21646708-social-mobility-depends-what-
happens-first-years-life-minding-nurture-gap
Climbing the Ladder; Socioeconomic Mobility in Malaysia. Khazanah Research Institute, October 2016
“UPSR Achievements of National Level and Indian Ethnic Group”, Ministry of Education Malaysia.
“SPM Achievements of National Level and Indian Ethnic Group”, Ministry of Education Malaysia
Periasamy, Santhi (2016) “Underachieving Youths and the Education System: A Case Study of the 
EWRF Research Programs” in Denison, J & Nathan, KS (Eds.) Contemporary Malaysian Indians, Bangi: 
KITA, pp. 409-425; CHILD submission for the 11th Malaysia Plan
Dropout rates do not include those identified for streaming into TVET and/or enrolment into at-risk 
youth programs
As measured against the 2016/17 baseline
More details on the MIB Implementation entity are in the Implementation Chapter
Yoshikawa, H; Weiland, C; Brooks-Gunn, J; Burchinal, MR; Espinosa, LM; Gormley, WT;... Zaslow, MJ 
(2013) Investing in Our Future:  The Evidence Base On Preschool Education Ann Arbor: SRCD
Interviews with PTST & SEDIC
Action Plan for the Future of Tamil Schools Unit (PTST) 2014.
Malaysian Education Blueprint 2013-2025
Jabatan Kemajuan Masyarakat (KEMAS) is a unit under the Ministry of Rural and Regional 
Development tasked with improving the livelihoods of people in rural areas.
“Enrolment Data by Ethnicity and by Level Of Education”, Ministry of Education Malaysia
“Enrolment Data by Ethnicity and by Level Of Education”, Ministry of Education Malaysia
Government agencies that run preschools include KEMAS, PERPADUAN, PASTI, JPNIN etc.
“Tadika Pilihan Untuk Anak” (2015, November 13) irrayyan.com. Accessed at: http://www.irrayyan.
com/2015/11/tadika-pilihan-untuk-anak.html#
Mustafa, Lily Muliana & Azman, Mohamed Nor Azhari (2013) “Preschool Education in Malaysia: 
Emerging T rends and Implications for the Future” American Journal of Economics 3(6), pp. 347-351
Interviews with Prof. Datuk Dr . NS Rajendran (PTST & SEDIC)
ENDNOTE
128
129
130
131
132
133
134
135
136
137
138
139
140
141
142
143
144
145
146
147
148
149
150
151
NO. ENDNOTENO.
CHAPTER 3: REALISING EACH CHILD’S POTENTIAL
154 LIST OF ENDNOTES
<<<PAGE 157>>>
Interviews with Prof. Datuk Dr . NS Rajendran (PTST & SEDIC)
Rajendran, NS (2016) “Status of Tamil School Education in Malaysia and Future Prospects” in 
Denison, J & Nathan, KS (Eds.) Contemporary Malaysian Indians, Bangi: KITA, pp. 387-407
“Malaysia Education Blueprint Annual Report 2014” Ministry of Education Malaysia
“Ringkasan Garis Panduan Permohonan Bantuan Yuran Murid Prasekolah Swasta/ Pusat Pendidikan 
Khas (Pindaan 2015)”, Ministry of Education Malaysia
In line with the Malaysian Education Blueprint which aims to ensure 100% preschool enrolment by 
2020
Moorthy, Ravichandran (2016) “Ethnic Indians in Malaysia: History and Issues of Development” in 
Denison, J & Nathan, KS (Eds.) Contemporary Malaysian Indians, Bangi: KITA, pp. 39-56.
Face-to-face survey of 2,087 Malaysian Indians in B40 households throughout Peninsular Malaysia 
conducted in July to September 2016. MIB Secretariat
PTST , Government-aided schools are schools which are partly financed by the Government (via grants) 
with the remaining funds financed by alternative sources
“Malaysia Educational Statistics 2015”, Ministry of Education Malaysia
2000 data extracted from Malaysia Education Blueprint 2013-2025. 2015 data calculated based on 
Pelan Tindakan Masa Depan Sekolah-sekolah Tamil and “Enrolment Statistics of Indian Children in 
MOE-registered Schools 2014” provided by the Ministry of Education
PTST
“UPSR Achievements of National Level and Indian Ethnic Group”, Ministry of Education Malaysia
“Gred Purata Nasional” (GPN) is the weighted average of scores achieved by students across all 
schools in a particular examination. A GPN score ranges from 1 to 5, with 1 indicating a perfect score. 
The widening gap was estimated to be caused by a drastic change in the UPSR examination format, 
inadequate preparedness of teachers and students in tackling higher-order thinking (HOT) items as 
well as a more stringent marking scheme. Source: PTST dialogue with teachers and the Director of the 
Examination Syndicate, Ministry of Education, Malaysia.
Analysis of UPSR achievements. Source: PTST and Examination Syndicate, Ministry of Education.
Observations from representatives of 323 NGOs who participated in 26 town hall meetings with PTST . 
Source: PTST Report, 2014.
PTST
“Malaysian Indians and the New Economic Model”, Institute of Ethnic Studies (KITA), University 
Kebangsaan Malaysia (UKM)
PTST
There is a shortage of 585 Bahasa Melayu teachers and 374 English teachers in SJKTs. Source: PTST 
Report, 2014
Interviews with PTST , SEDIC, and various NGOs.
The Dual Language Program gives qualifying schools the option to teach STEM subjects in English. 
Source: MOE
Carried out by Hindu Youth Organization (HYO) in partnership with the Malaysian Community & 
Education Foundation and supported by the Government of Malaysia.
152
153
154
155
156
157
158
159
160
161
162
163
164
165
166
167,168
169
170
171
172
173
174
ENDNOTENO.
CHAPTER 3: REALISING EACH CHILD’S POTENTIAL
155LIST OF ENDNOTES
<<<PAGE 158>>>
PTST
From interviews with SEDIC and PTST; Malaysia Education Blueprint 2013-2025.
Pertubuhan Pembangunan dan Kemajuan Sekolah Tamil Malaysia (PPST)
In the 11th Malaysia Plan, the Government plans to strengthen online learning in all schools. A digital 
content development roadmap will be formed to digitise preschool to secondary school education 
curriculum, towards enabling virtual and interactive learning.
A Malaysian T rust School exemplar is the partnership between the MOE and Yayasan Amir . Under this 
arrangement, Yayasan Amir supports MOE in selected areas including pedagogy and performance 
tracking amongst others
Estimates based on census data and “Enrolment Statistics of Indian Children in MOE-registered 
Schools 2014” provided by the Ministry of Education.
Interviews with various stakeholders from Government agencies and NGOs
Interviews with various stakeholders, the Government, and NGOs. Further reference on peer-to-peer 
racial bias: Mohamad Salleh, Norshidah & Zainal, Khalim (2014) “Bullying Among Secondary School 
Students in Malaysia: A Case Study”, International Education Studies Vol. 7 No. 13, pp. 184-191
Malaysia Education Blueprint Annual Report 2014
A related issue is the capacity of teachers and schools to tackle the needs of underperforming and 
problematic students, many of whom are from low-income households. This was addressed in the 
‘IB40 Children and Youth’ section above
Nagappan, R; Maniam, M; Periasamy, S; Rao, R; Devarajoo, K & Velu, J (2012) Exploring Remove 
Classes in Malaysia; A Study to Evaluate Their Effectiveness Kuala Lumpur: EWRF
Face-to-face survey of 2,087 Malaysian Indians in B40 households throughout Peninsular Malaysia 
conducted in July to September 2016. MIB Secretariat
Malaysia Education Blueprint Annual Report 2014
Malaysia Education Blueprint 2013-2025
Data extracted and tabulated based on “Enrolment Statistics of Indian Applicants Into IPTA/IPTS 
2014”, Ministry of Higher Education
Based on interviews however , the most common reasons for qualified applicants not to enter the IPTA 
is the applicant’s selectiveness in course and location of IPTA offered
Data extracted and tabulated based on “Enrolment Statistics of Indian Applicants Into IPTA/IPTS 
2014” provided by the Ministry of Higher Education.
Malaysian Indians & The 11th Malaysia Plan (2016-2020), “Tapping the Opportunities & Plugging in” 
by Datuk Dr . Denison Jayasooria
Interviews with various stakeholders, the Government, and NGOs.
T eoh, El Sen “Students involved in violent crime and gangsterism on the rise” (2014, March 29) Astro 
Awani. Accessed at: http://english.astroawani.com/malaysia-news/students-involved-violent-crime-
and-gangsterism-rise-32766
52% of arrests are aged 19-30 years. “No. of Arrests by Type of Crime and by Ethnicity”, Crime 
Investigation Unit, Royal Police Department of Malaysia, 2014
175
176
177
178
179
180
181
182
183
184
185
186
187
188,189
190
191
192
193
194
195
196
ENDNOTENO.
CHAPTER 3: REALISING EACH CHILD’S POTENTIAL
156 LIST OF ENDNOTES
<<<PAGE 159>>>
CHAPTER 3: REALISING EACH CHILD’S POTENTIAL
CHAPTER 4: IMPROVING LIVELIHOODS & WEALTH
“No. of Arrests by Type of Crime and by Ethnicity”, Crime Investigation Unit, Royal Police Department 
of Malaysia, 2014
“No. of Youth Prisoners Held in Prisons by Ethnicity” Malaysia Prisons Department, 2014
Attributed to Bukit Aman’s CID director , as reported in “Indian gangs originated from Chinese triads” 
(2013, August 27) The Sun Daily. Accessed at: http://www.thesundaily.my/news/808352
Smith, CA & Stern, SB (1997) “Delinquency and Antisocial Behavior: A Review of Family Processes 
and Intervention Research” Social Service Review, 71, pp. 382-420.
Adaickalam, Jasmine (2015) “Strategies to Meet the Needs of High Risk Indian Youths and Ensure 
Them Psycho-Socially Included into Mainstream Development of the Nation” Input to Indian 
Development Blueprint 2016-2020 (Unpublished).
Carried out by MySkills Foundation
Malaysian Indian Sports Council - Malaysian Indian Football Association (MISC-MIFA) consisting of 
majority Malaysian Indian players from low-income families manage to mainstream themselves into 
the Malaysia Premier League season 2017
Risk assessment tools to be developed and implemented in 2017/18 based on risk factors identified 
by field practitioners, such as family environment, substance usage, personal disposition etc.
2014 Household Income Survey, Department of Statistics Malaysia.
As described in the ‘Contextual Overview’ section of the Introduction chapter
Household Income and Expenditure 2014 Report furnished by Minister in the Prime Minister’s 
Department, Tan Sri Abdul Wahid Omar , in a written reply to Ampang MP Zuraida Kamaruddin. 
As reported in “Bumis majority of top earners - but disparity widest, too” (2015, November 26) 
Malaysiakini. Accessed at: https://www.malaysiakini.com/news/321081
The Gini coefficient is an index from 0 to 1 measuring income inequality: the higher the number , the 
higher the inequality.
State of Households II Report, Khazanah Research Institute
Occupations are classified by the Malaysia Standard Classification of Occupation 2008, the 
Department of Statistics, Malaysia and the World Bank
Climbing the Ladder; Socioeconomic Mobility in Malaysia. Khazanah Research Institute, October 2016
Ibid. Income quintiles are derived by sorting and dividing the study’s sample. Thus, income 
quintiles for parents and children would differ according to the income distribution of the respective 
generations
From 2015 baseline, in line with 11th Malaysia Plan
Companies registered with the Registrar of Companies, Malaysia (ROC)
Increase compared to 2017 baseline
ENDNOTE
ENDNOTE
197
198
199
200
201,202
203
204
205
206
207
208
209
210
211
212
213,214
215
216
217,218
NO.
NO.
157LIST OF ENDNOTES
<<<PAGE 160>>>
CHAPTER 4: IMPROVING LIVELIHOODS & WEALTH
Employment Rates By Ethnicity and By Occupation. Source: Penyiasatan T enaga Buruh, Jabatan 
Perangkaan Malaysia, 2015
Survey was conducted in Selangor in 2010 by Professor Mahendiran Nair’s research team at Monash 
University Malaysia, extracted from Malaysian Indian Economic Development Report For RMK-11, by 
SEED Steering Committee
Employment Rates by Ethnicity and Age Group 2015 by Penyiasatan T enaga Buruh, Jabatan 
Perangkaan Malaysia
Extracted from Inclusive Development and Malaysian Indians by Muhammed Abdul Khalid - 
Contemporary Malaysian Indians, edited by Denison Jayasooria and K.S. Nathan
Employment Rates by Ethnicity and Age Group 2015 by Penyiasatan T enaga Buruh, Jabatan 
Perangkaan Malaysia
An example is the Integrated Cumulative Grade Point Average (iCGPA) where students are assessed 
across seven indicators including communication skills and problem-solving abilities
An example is the 2u2i program where students spend two years in university and the next two years 
in a work-based learning program as opposed to short bursts of internships or industrial training
The NKEAs are oil, gas & energy; palm oil & rubber; wholesale & retail; financial services; tourism; 
electronics & electrical; business services; communications content & infrastructure; education; 
agriculture; and healthcare
Based on various interviews with community organisers and other Blueprint stakeholders
From 2015 baseline, in line with 11th Malaysia Plan.
Labour Force Survey Report, 2014
Malaysian Indian Economic Development Report For RMK-11 by SEED Steering Committee.
Data is compiled by SEED from micro financing channels such as TEKUN, AIM, SEED Start Up Nation 
and SME financing channels such as SME Bank, SME Corp, MIDF , Credit Guarantee Corporation 
(CGC), Shariah-compliant SME Financing Scheme (SSFS) as well as other initiatives such as Small 
Retailer T ransformation Program (TUKAR) and Automotive Workshop Modernisation (ATOM)
TEKUN Nasional monthly updates
AIM monthly updates
SME Bank quarterly updates
MIDF quarterly updates
Companies registered with Suruhanjaya Syarikat Malaysia (SSM)
Increase compared to 2017 baseline
Suruhanjaya Syarikat Malaysia (SSM) between 2005 - 2013
Face-to-face survey of 2,087 Malaysian Indians in B40 households throughout Peninsular Malaysia 
conducted in July to September 2016. MIB Secretariat
Household Income & Expenditure Survey 2014
Strategy Paper 2 for the 11th Malaysia Plan, EPU
219
220
221
222
223
224
225
226
227
228
229,230
231
232
233
234
235
236
237
238
239
240,241
242
243
ENDNOTENO.
158 LIST OF ENDNOTES
<<<PAGE 161>>>
CHAPTER 4: IMPROVING LIVELIHOODS & WEALTH
CHAPTER 5: INCREASING SOCIAL INCLUSION
Face-to-face survey of 2,087 Malaysian Indians in B40 households throughout Peninsular Malaysia 
conducted in July to September 2016. MIB Secretariat
The Marginal Propensity to Consume across Household Income Groups, Bank Negara Malaysia 
Working Paper Series, 2013
Increase compared to 2017 baseline
Matching ratio to be determined by scheme T echnical Committee comprised of MIB Implementation 
Unit and MOF , amongst others
The remaining 22% respondents selected ‘did not know’. Source: Face-to-face survey of 2,087 
Malaysian Indians in B40 households throughout Peninsular Malaysia conducted in July to September 
2016. MIB Secretariat
Measurement to be developed, and baseline measured, in 2017
Development of Human Resources for Rural Areas (DHRRA)
Refers to individuals not holding any identification document and not considered as a citizen by any 
nation
Refers to individuals holding ‘red’ identity cards (indicating ‘permanent resident’ status) or MyKAS 
(indicating ‘temporary resident’ status) with challenges in producing proof of citizenship, e.g. birth 
certificate, marriage certificate, etc.
Department of Chemistry Malaysia. Accessed at: http://www.kimia.gov.my/v3/en/about-us/forensic/
paternity.html
National Registration Department. Accessed at: http://www.jpn.gov.my/en/kp/permohonan-gantian-
hilang-kad-pengenalan-mykad-atau-mypr/#1458528203078-8acbfa91-eb1b
For example, explore automatic granting of birth certificates for hospital births, waiving the current 
14-day claiming period
Malhotra, Sunder “Is there any international outcry to stop demolishing Hindu temples in Malaysia?” 
(2007 , December 2) NRIInternet.com. Accessed at: http://nriinternet.com/NRIhindu/MALAYSIA/
Malaysia-demolshing_Hindu_T emples/index.htm
Guideline issued by Islamic Affairs Unit, Prime Minister’s Department, ‘Cadangan Garis Panduan 
Pembinaan Rumah-Rumah Ibadat Bukan Islam’ & Malaysia Hindu Sangam’s, ‘T emple Guide 
Handbook’
Include land identification/negotiation, construction approval, funding, contractor/vendor selection, 
etc.
Public Services Commission of Malaysia (SPA) 2015 statistics.
http://www.freemalaysiatoday.com/category/nation/2015/05/09/lack-of-non-bumi-in-civil-service-
must-be-addressed/
The majority of qualified Malaysian Indians may prefer to pursue careers in the private sector
244
245
246
247
248,249,
250
251
252
253
254
255
256
257
258
259
260
261,262
263
264
ENDNOTE
ENDNOTE
NO.
NO.
159LIST OF ENDNOTES
<<<PAGE 162>>>
CHAPTER 5: INCREASING SOCIAL INCLUSION
CHAPTER 6: DELIVERING THE MALAYSIAN INDIAN BLUEPRINT
Interviews with SITF and other stakeholders 
Attributed to Bukit Aman’s CID director , as reported in “Indian gangs originated from Chinese triads” 
(2013, August 27) The Sun Daily. Accessed at: http://www.thesundaily.my/news/808352
Violent crimes include murder , attempted murder , rape, incest, armed robbery, unarmed robbery, 
battery, etc. Source: Crime Investigation Unit, PDRM. 2014
“Malaysia: Indians demand apology in racial slur case” (2008, August 6) News18.com. Accessed at: 
http://www.news18.com/news/india/malaysia-indians-demand-apology-in-racial-slur-case-294267 .
html
In March 2001, a violent clash between Malay and Indian groups was triggered in Kampung Medan, 
Petaling Jaya, by an argument over road access for an Indian funeral possession and a Malay wedding 
party.  The violence spread over 3 weeks to the surrounding areas, resulting in 6 deaths and over a 
hundred people wounded. Source: media reports.
Measurement to be developed, and baseline measured, in 2017 .
Including non-Malaysian citizens e.g. migrant workers. Source: 2015 Population Estimates, 
Department of Statistics Malaysia.
A monitoring function will remain after 2030 to track the community’s status and participation rates
In cases where there are supplementary modules or new non-overlapping initiatives, the units will 
continue to carry out their role of implementer or joint-implementer
265
266
267
268
269
270
271
272
273
ENDNOTE
ENDNOTE
NO.
NO.
160LIST OF ENDNOTES 160LIST OF ENDNOTES160 LIST OF ENDNOTES
<<<PAGE 163>>>
The Malaysian Indian Blueprint (MIB) was assessed and approved at various levels over the course of its 
development, with each level involving key stakeholders from Government and the community.
Cabinet Committee on Indian Participation in Government Programs 
and Projects (CCIC) 
The CCIC is a committee chaired by the Prime Minister and consists of Malaysian Indian leaders in 
Government, the Chief Secretary to the Government, Secretary Generals and Director Generals of relevant 
Ministries and Agencies, as well as others appointed by the Prime Minister . It is responsible for the final 
approval and endorsement of the Malaysian Indian Blueprint (MIB). 
1 YAB Dato’ Sri Mohd Najib bin Tun Abdul Razak 
(Chairman) Prime Minister of Malaysia
2 YB Datuk Seri Dr. S. Subramaniam Minister of Health 
3 YB Dato’ Sri S. K. Devamany Deputy Minister in the Prime Minister’s Department 
4 YB Datuk M. Saravanan Deputy Minister of Youth and Sports 
5 YB Dato’ P. Kamalanathan Deputy Minister of Education 1
6 YB Datuk Dr. J. Loga Bala Mohan Deputy Minister of Federal Territories 
7 YBhg. Tan Sri. Dr. Ali bin Hamsa Chief Secretary to the Government
8 YBhg. Dato’ Sri Zainal Rahim bin Seman Director General of Public Service
9 YBhg. Tan Sri. Dr. Mohd Irwan Serigar bin Abdullah Secretary General of Treasury 
10 YBhg. Datuk Hj. Mohammad bin Mentek Secretary General, Ministry of Urban Wellbeing, 
Housing and Local Government 
11 YBhg. Datuk Seri Dr. Rahamat Bivi binti Yusoff Director General of Economic Planning Unit 
12 YBhg. Dato’ Alwi bin Haji Ibrahim Secretary General, Ministry of Home Affairs 
13 YBhg. Datuk Seri Ahmad Zaki Ansore bin Mohd Yusof Director General of Implementation Coordination Unit 
14 YBhg. Dato’ Sri Alias bin Ahmad Secretary General, Ministry of Education
15 YBhg. Tan Sri Dr. Noorul Ainur Mohd. Nur Secretary General, Ministry of Higher Education 
16 YBhg. Tan Sri Dr. Khair bin Mohamad Yusof Director General of Education Malaysia
17 YBhg. Dato’ Lokman Hakim bin Ali Secretary General, Ministry of Youth and Sports
18 YBhg. Datuk Dr. Rose Lena binti Lazemi Secretary General,  Ministry of Women, Family and 
Community Development
19 YBhg. Dato’ Seri Adenan bin Ab Rahman Secretary General, Ministry of Human Resources 
20 YBhg. Tan Sri Arpah binti Abdul Razak Chairman of Public Services Commission
21 YBhg. Datuk Dr. (Ar.)  Ravin Ponniah Member of the Cabinet Committee
APPENDIX 1: Structure of the Malaysian Indian Blueprint (MIB) Approval
APPENDICES 161
<<<PAGE 164>>>
162 LIST OF APPENDIX
Steering Committee
The Steering Committee is chaired by the Deputy-Director General of the Economic Planning Unit (Policy), 
and consists of senior representatives of relevant Government Ministries and Agencies. It is responsible for 
guiding the Malaysian Indian Blueprint Secretariat (MIBS) and ensuring proposed policies and initiatives are 
implementable. 
1 YBhg. Dato’ Nik Azman bin Nik Abdul Majid
(Chairman) Deputy Director General (Policy) of Economic Planning Unit
2 Mr. Muhamad bin Idris Director (Distribution Section) Economic Planning Unit 
3 Mr. Thanaselan Rajendran Special Officer to the Prime Minister
4 YBhg. Datuk Nor Rizan bin Mohd Thani Deputy Director-General (Strategic Development), 
Implementation Coordination Unit
5 YBhg. Datuk Profesor Dr. N. S. Rajendran Director of the Socio-Economic Development of Indian 
Community (SEDIC)
6 YBrs. Dr. Waitchalla R.R.V. Suppiah Deputy Secretary General (Operations),
Ministry of Women, Family and Community Development
7 YBhg. Datuk Dr. A. T. Kumararajah Chief Executive Officer, Secretariat for Empowerment of Indian
Entrepreneurs (SEED)
8 Mr. Chin Weng Peng Deputy Secretary (Recruitment & Services) Education Service 
Commission Malaysia
9 YBrs. Dr. V. Sivabalasingam Under Secretary, Fiscal & Economics Division, Ministry of 
Finance
10 YBrs. Dr. Guan Eng Chan Deputy Under Secretary (Planning), Ministry of Higher 
Education
11 Mr. Dairin Unsir Deputy Under Secretary (Strategic Planning), Ministry of Home 
Affairs
12 YBhg. Datin Elya Juliana binti Abdul Wahab
Senior Principal Assistant Secretary (Policy and Inspectorate 
Division, Ministry of Urban Wellbeing, Housing & Local 
Government
13 Mr. Muhammad Haizul Azreen bin Usol 
Ghafli
Senior Principal Assistant Secretary 2 (Policy & Strategic 
Planning Division), Ministry of Youth & Sports
14 Mr. Abdul Rahman bin Yusof
Senior Principal Assistant Secretary 2 (Policy & Strategic 
Planning Division), Ministry of Agriculture & Agro-Based 
Industry
15 Mr. Ramanan a/l Ragupathy
Principal Assistant Director (Policy & Strategic Planning 
Division), Ministry of Domestic Trade, Co-operatives & 
Consumerism
16 YBhg. Datin Dr. Manjushree a/p Appathurai Principal Assistant Secretary (Policy Division), Ministry of 
Human Resources
17 Mr. Suvarmani a/l Subban Assistant Director (Planning & Education Research Policy 
Division), Education Ministry
APPENDIX 1: Structure of the Malaysian Indian Blueprint (MIB) Approval
<<<PAGE 165>>>
APPENDIX 1: Structure of the Malaysian Indian Blueprint (MIB) Approval
Technical Committee & Malaysian Indian Blueprint Secretariat
The T echnical Committee is chaired by the Special Officer to the Prime Minister and consists of civil 
society experts, academics, social workers and representatives from relevant Government agencies. It is 
responsible for providing content and input to strengthen the Blueprint as well as to validate key findings 
and recommendations. The Malaysian Indian Blueprint Secretariat (MIBS) is tasked with coordinating and 
collating all input and advisory from organisations and individuals in the Malaysian Indian community as 
well as other relevant stakeholders. Additionally, the MIBS implemented surveys and other data gathering 
initiatives as well as with organised all material into a structured Blueprint document. 
1 Mr. Thanaselan Rajendran 
(Chairman)
Special Officer to the Prime Minister & Malaysian Indian Blueprint 
Secretariat
2 YBhg. Datuk Professor Dr. N. S. 
Rajendran
Director of the Socio-Economic Development of Indian Community 
(SEDIC)
3 YBrs. Dr. Waitchalla a/p R. R. V. 
Suppiah 
Deputy Secretary General (Operations), Ministry of Women, Family 
and Community Development
4 YBhg. Datuk Dr. A. T. Kumararajah Chief Executive Officer, Secretariat for Empowerment of Indian 
Entrepreneurs (SEED)
5 YBhg. Datuk Dr. R. Thillainathan Chairman, Child Information, Learning and Development Centre 
(CHILD)
6 YBhg. DCP (R) Dato’ A. Paramasivam General Manager of Safety & Security, Malaysian Resources 
Corporation Berhad (MRCB)
7 YBhg. Dato’ Bhupatrai M. Premji Director, India International Bank (Malaysia) Berhad
8 YBrs. Professor Dr. Mahendran Nair Vice-President (Research & Development) Monash University, 
Malaysia
9 YBrs. Dr. Sheikh Ghazali Abod Chief Operations Officer, CEDAR, SME Bank Malaysia
10 Mr. S. Pasupathi Director, MySkills Foundation
11 Ms. Ananthi a/p Thuraisamy Director (Policy & Planning Division) Department of National Unity 
and Integration
12 Mr. Dairin Unsir Deputy Under Secretary (Strategic Planning), Ministry of Home Affairs
13 Mr. Arunan Kumaran Senior Principal Assistant (Policy & Strategic Planning Division), 
Ministry of Domestic Trade, Co-operatives & Consumerism
14 YBhg. Datin Dr. Manjushree a/p 
Appathurai
Principal Assistant Secretary (Policy Division) Ministry of Human 
Resource
15 Mr. M. Muthusamy Deputy Coordinator, Action Plan For Future of Tamil Schools
16 DSP Balasubramaniam a/l K. 
Suppiah
DSP of Community Policing, Department of Crime Prevention and 
Community Safety (JPJKK), Kuala Lumpur Police Head Quarters
17  Mr. Badrul Hisham Md. 
 Khalid
 Assistant Director, (Implementation &  Coordination 
 Unit (ICU)
163LIST OF APPENDIX
<<<PAGE 166>>>
164LIST OF APPENDIX
18  Mr. Mohd Nizam Tajul Arus  Principal Assistant Director (Distribution Section)  
 Economic Planning Unit
19  Ms. Wan Nur Iza binti Mohd  
 Nor
 Manager (Services Management Division), Institute 
 for Youth Research Malaysia(IYRES)
20  Mr. Dilip Martin  Principal Private Secretary to YB Deputy Minister 
 in Prime Minister’s Department
21  Mr. Uvaraja Maniam  Principal Private Secretary to YB Deputy Education  
 Minister 1
22 YBhg. Datuk Dr. (Ar.) Ravin Ponniah Member of the Cabinet Committee 
23 Mr. Kamalan Rajagopalu Malaysian Indian Blueprint Secretariat
24 Ms. Loschana Kumaravelu Malaysian Indian Blueprint Secretariat
25 Ms. Nurul Hamizah Jaslee Malaysian Indian Blueprint Secretariat
26 Ms. Nelleita Omar Malaysian Indian Blueprint Secretariat
27 Mr. Abhishek Menon Malaysian Indian Blueprint Secretariat
28 Mr. Agilan Manohar Malaysian Indian Blueprint Secretariat
29 Ms. Gevitha Ananda Roe Malaysian Indian Blueprint Secretariat
30 Ms. Saomithra Kumaravelu Malaysian Indian Blueprint Secretariat
31 Ms. Shalini Kandasamy Malaysian Indian Blueprint Secretariat
32 Ms. Lee Ying Ying Malaysian Indian Blueprint Secretariat
33 Ms. Chan Yu Yhong Malaysian Indian Blueprint Secretariat
34 Mr. Gunaseelan Seernyanathan Malaysian Indian Blueprint Secretariat
 
APPENDIX 1: Structure of the Malaysian Indian Blueprint (MIB) Approval
164 LIST OF APPENDIX
<<<PAGE 167>>>
The CCIC, Steering Committee, T echnical Committee and the Malaysian Indian Blueprint Secretariat 
(MIBS) would like to express their sincere appreciation and gratitude to the following individuals and 
their organisations for their contributions, support and guidance towards the development of the 
MALAYSIAN INDIAN BLUEPRINT (MIB): 
YBhg. Dato’ Seri Utama S. Samy Vellu (Special Envoy [Infrastructure] to India & South Asia)
YB Senator Dato’ Sri S. A. Vigneswaran (President of the Senate)
YB Puan Thangasvari Suppiah (Perak State Assembly Speaker)
YBhg. Tan Sri Dr. Madinah Mohamad (Auditor General)
YBhg. Datuk Seri Abdul Rahim Mohamad Radzi (Secretary General, Ministry of Defence)
YBhg. Datuk Seri Jamil bin Haji Salleh (Secretary General, Ministry of Domestic T rade, Cooperatives and Consumerism)
YBhg. Dato’ Sri Zohari bin Haji Akob (Secretary General, Ministry of Works)
YBhg. Datuk Seri Dr. Mohd Azhar bin Hj. Yahaya (Secretary General, Ministry of Science, T echnology and Innovation)
YBhg. Datuk Seri Saripuddin bin Kasim (Secretary General, Ministry of T ransport Malaysia)
YBhg. Dato’ Seri Ir. Dr. Zaini bin Ujang (Secretary General, Ministry of Energy, Green T echnology and Water)
YBhg. Datuk Seri J. Jayasiri (Secretary General, Ministry of International T rade and Industry)
YBhg. Datuk Seri Adnan bin Hj. Md Ikshan (Secretary General, Ministry of Federal T erritories)
YBhg. Datuk Hj. Ab. Ghaffar bin A. Tambi (Secretary General, Ministry of T ourism and Culture Malaysia)
YBhg. Dato’ Seri Dr. Chen Chaw Min (Secretary General, Ministry of Health)
YBhg. Datuk Iskandar Mohd Kaus (Principal Private Secretary to the Prime Minister)
YBhg. Tan Sri Othman bin Haji Mahmood (Senior Deputy Secretary General, Prime Minister’s Department)
YBhg. Dato’ Sri Dr. Ismail bin Haji Bakar (Secretary General, Ministry of Agriculture & Agro-Based Industry Malaysia)
YBhg. Datuk M. Nagarajan (Secretary General, Ministry of Plantation Industries and Commodities)
Late Datuk Dr. Sundaran Annamalai (Former Secretary General, Ministry of Plantation Industries and Commodities)
YBhg. Datuk Dr. Haji Abdul Rahman Hasan (Chief Statistician, Department of Statistics Malaysia)
YBhg. KJP Dato’ Sri Hj. Zulkifli bin Omar (Commissioner General of Prisons Malaysia)
YBhg. Dato’ Mohd Yazid bin Ramli (Director General of the National Registration Department)
YDH CP Dato’ Amar Singh (Chief Police Officer , Kuala Lumpur)
YBhg. Dato’ Mohd Jaffrey bin Joakim (Director General, Department of Labour Peninsular Malaysia)
YB Dato’ Seri Abdul Puhat bin Mat Nayan (Perak State Secretary)
YB Datuk Wira Hj. Naim bin Abu Bakar (Melaka State Secretary)
YB Dato’ Jaya Budiman Dato’ Paduka Haji Mohd Puat bin Haji Mohd Ali (Kedah State Secretary)
YB Dato’ Wan Nawawi bin Haji Wan Ismail (T erengganu State Secretary)
YBrs. Encik Azmi Rohani (Johor State Secretary)
YB Datuk Seri Haji Mat Ali bin Hassan (Negeri Sembilan State Secretary)
YB Dato’ Sri Muhammad Safian bin Ismail (Pahang State Secretary)
YBhg. Datuk K. Yogeesvaran (Deputy Director General [Macro] of Economic Planning Unit)
YBhg. Datuk N. Rajendran (Deputy Chief Executive Officer II of Malaysian Industrial Development Authority) 
YBhg. Datuk Abu Bakar bin Idris (Secretary of Education Service Commission)
YBhg. Dato’ Zainal Abidin bin Ahmad (Secretary of Judicial and Legal Service Commission)
YBhg. Tan Sri M. Kayveas (President, People’s Progressive Party)
YBhg. Datuk M. Sambanthan (President, All Malaysia Indian Progressive Front)
YBhg. Datuk A. Kohilan Pillay (Vice President, Parti Gerakan Rakyat Malaysia)
YB Senator Tan Sri Nallakaruppan (President, Malaysian Indian United Party)
YBhg. Datuk Seri R.S Thanenthiran (President, Malaysia Makkal Sakthi Party)
YBhg. Datuk T. Mohan (MIC Vice President)
YB Senator Dato’ Jaspal Singh (MIC Vice President)
YBhg. Datuk A. Sakthivel (MIC Secretary General)
YBhg. Dato’ Sri S. Vell Paari (MIC T reasurer General)
YBhg. Dato’ V. S. Mogan (MIC Information Chief)
YBhg. Dato’ C. Sivarrajh (MIC Youth Chief)
YBhg. Dato’ M. Mohana (MIC Wanita Chief)
Ms. R. Gunasundari (MIC Puteri Chief)
YBhg. Dato’ S. Kanan (MIC CWC Member)
YBhg. Dato’ V. Elango (MIC CWC Member)
Mr. K. R. Parthiban (MIC CWC Member)
YB Dato’ L. Manickam (MIC CWC Member)
MIB ACKNOWLEDGEMENT LIST 165
<<<PAGE 168>>>
YB Datuk M. Asojan (MIC CWC Member)
Mr. TH Subra @ Subramaniam (MIC CWC Member)
YBhg. Dato’ S. Anandan (MIC CWC Member)
YB K. Ravenkumar (MIC CWC Member)
YB Senator Dato’ R. Goonasakaren (MIC CWC Member)
Mr. J. Dhinagaran (MIC CWC Member)
YBhg. Dato’ N. Muneandy (MIC CWC Member)
YBhg. Dato’ R. Supramaniam (MIC CWC Member)
YBhg. Datuk G. Kannan (MIC CWC Member)
YBhg. Datuk Seri Daljit Singh (MIC CWC Member)
Mr. M. Mathuraiveran (MIC CWC Member)
YBhg. Dato’ M. Ngnana Sagaran (MIC CWC Member)
Mr. K. Thankaraj (MIC CWC Member)
Mr. V. Nagaiah (MIC CWC Member)
Mr. G. Raman (MIC CWC Member)
Mr. R. Nadarajan (MIC CWC Member)
Ms. M. Vickneswari (MIC CWC Member)
YBrs. Dr. P . Tanaletchumy (MIC CWC Member)
Mr. S. Sivakumar (MIC CWC Member)
Mr. S. Tamilvanan (MIC CWC Member)
Mr. S. Sunther (MIC CWC Member)
YBhg. Dato’ T. Murugiah (MIC CWC Member)
YBhg. Dato’ R. Subramaniam (MIC CWC Member)
Mr. N. Krishnan (MIC CWC Member)
YBhg. Dato’ S. Marathamuthu (MIC CWC Member)
Mr. S. James Kalimuthu (MIC CWC Member)
Mr. V. Gunalan (MIC CWC Member)
YBhg.Tan Sri G. Vadiveloo (Former President of the Senate)
YBhg. Tan Sri Professor T. Marimuthu (Former Deputy Minister of Agriculture)
YBhg. Tan Sri S. Veerasingam (Former Deputy Minister of Domestic T rade & Consumer Affairs)
YBhg. Datin Paduka Komala Krishna Moorthy (Former Education Ministry Parliamentary Secretary)
Mr. D.P . Vijandran (Former Deputy President of the Senate)
YBhg. Dato’ V. L. Kandan (Former Selangor State Executive Councillor)
YBhg. Datuk S. S. Rajagopal (Former Selangor State Executive Councillor)
YBhg. Datuk K. S. Balakrishnan (Former Johor State Executive Councillor)
YBhg. Dato’ A. Ponniah (Former Negeri Sembilan State Executive Councillor)
YBhg. Dato’ G. Rajoo (Former Perak State Executive Councillor)
YBhg. Dato’ Dr. K. Rajapathy (Former Penang State Executive Councillor)
YBhg. Datuk R. Perumal (Former Malacca State Executive Councillor)
YBhg. Datuk Wira R. Raghavan (Former Malacca State Executive Councillor)
YBhg. Tan Sri K. S. Nijhar (Former Member of Parliament for Subang)
Late Datuk Leela Rama (Former Member of Parliament for Kapar)
YBhg. Datuk Krishnasamy (Former Member of Parliament for T eluk Kemang)
YBhg. Datin Paduka Jeya Parthiban (Former Senator)
YBhg. Puan Sri Sarasa Pasamanickam (Former Senator)
YBhg. Dato’ G. Parasuraman (Former Senator)
YBhg. Datuk N. S. Krishnan (Former Senator)
YBhg. Dato’ N. Marimuthu (Former Senator)
YBhg. Dato’ V. Jegarasa (Former Selangor State Assemblymen)
YBhg. Dato’ S. Gopalakrishnan (Former Selangor State Assemblymen)
Ms. Kamala Ganapathy (Former Selangor State Assemblywomen)
YBhg. Dato’ Dr. S. Subramaniam (Former Kedah State Assemblymen)
YBhg. Dato’ V. Thannimalai (Former Kedah State Assemblymen)
YBhg. Dato’ S. Ganesan (Former Kedah State Assemblymen)
YBhg. Datuk M. M. Samy (Former Johor State Assemblymen)
YBhg. Dato’ M. Devendran (Former Pahang State Assemblymen)
YBhg. Dato’ Sellathevan (Former Selangor State Assemblymen)
166 MIB ACKNOWLEDGEMENT LIST
<<<PAGE 169>>>
YBhg. Datuk SRM. Durairaj (Former Malacca MIC Deputy Chairman)
YBhg. Tan Sri K. Kenneth Eswaran (President, Malaysia Associated Indian Chambers of Commerce & Industry)
YBhg.Tan Sri G. Gnanalingam (Executive Chairman, Westports Malaysia)
YBhg. Tan Sri Ravindran Menon (Group Executive Director , ARA Group)
YBhg. Tan Sri N. Puvanendran (Executive Chairman, Hot Media Sdn Bhd)
YBhg. Datuk R. Rajasekaran (Deputy President, Malaysia Associated Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry)
Mr. M. Sham Sunder (Vice President, Malaysia Associated Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry)
YBhg. Datuk V. Jothi (Vice President, Malaysia Associated Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry)
YBhg. Datuk S. Muniandy (Assistant Secretary General, Malaysia Associated Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry)
YBhg. Dato’ S. Kumarasamy (T reasurer General, Malaysia Associated Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry)
YBhg. Dato’ Dr.  V. Shanmughanathan (Council Member , Malaysia Associated Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry)
Mr. T. Nagarajan (Council Member , Malaysia Associated Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry)
Mr. L. Athedthan (Council Member , Malaysia Associated Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry)
YBhg. Datuk B. Jayanthi Devi (Deputy Chairman, Gerakan Indian Special T ask Force)
YBhg. Datuk K. Sabaratnam (Vice Chairman, Gerakan Indian Special T ask Force)
YBhg. Dato’ M. Sathasivam (Vice Chairman, Gerakan Indian Special T ask Force)
Mr. A. Ramarao (Vice Chairman, Gerakan Indian Special T ask Force)
Mr. M. Vimalanadan (Vice Chairman, Gerakan Indian Special T ask Force)
Mr. M. Marimuthu Selvan (Vice Chairman, Gerakan Indian Special T ask Force)
YBrs. Dr. Eddie Edward Tharmaraj (Secretary, Gerakan Indian Special T ask Force)
Mr. S. Devananthan (T reasurer , Gerakan Indian Special T ask Force)
Mr. A. Kuhan (Council Member , Gerakan Indian Special T ask Force)
Mr. P . Ganesan (Council Member , Gerakan Indian Special T ask Force)
Mr. Inderjit Singh (Council Member , Gerakan Indian Special T ask Force)
Mr. S. Prabakaran (Council Member , Gerakan Indian Special T ask Force)
Mr. N. Velayutham (Council Member , Gerakan Indian Special T ask Force)
Mr. V. Sugumaran (Council Member , Gerakan Indian Special T ask Force)
Mr. N. Subramaniam (Council Member , Gerakan Indian Special T ask Force)
Mr. P . Ramamorthy (Council Member , Gerakan Indian Special T ask Force)
Mr. S. Balasubramaniar (Council Member , Gerakan Indian Special T ask Force)
Mr. K. Sivasuntram (Council Member , Gerakan Indian Special T ask Force)
Mr. M. Gaganathan (Council Member , Gerakan Indian Special T ask Force)
Mr. M. Muniandy (Council Member , Gerakan Indian Special T ask Force)
Mr. N. Chandhiran (Council Member , Gerakan Indian Special T ask Force)
Mr. C. Raveedran (Council Member , Gerakan Indian Special T ask Force)
Mr. S. Pandian (Council Member , Gerakan Indian Special T ask Force)
Ms. S. Kannimariyamal (Council Member , Gerakan Indian Special T ask Force)
YBhg. Tan Sri Dr. M. Thambirajah (Founder of Sri Murugan Center)
YDH CP Datuk Seri Mohmad bin Salleh (Director of Criminal Investigation Department, Bukit Aman)
YBrs. Dr. Wasitah binti Mohd Yussof (Director General, Youth Skill Development Division, Ministry of Youth and Sports)
YBrs. Dr. Anjli Doshi-Gandhi (Deputy Director General, National Population and Family Development Board)
Mr. Mohd Azhan bin Samat @ Limat (Director , Bahagian Kesejahteraan Rakyat, ICU JPM)
Mr. Mohd Faizal bin Mohammad (Assistant Director , Jabatan T enaga Kerja Semenanjung)
Mr. Thinalan Rajagopalu (MIC Youth Deputy Chief)
Ms. Thangarani Thiagarajan (MIC Wanita Deputy Chief)
YBhg. Datuk Dr. Denison Jayasooria (Principal Research Fellow, Institute of Ethnic Studies [KITA], National University of Malaysia)
YBhg. Datuk A. Vaithilingam (Former President, Malaysia Hindu Sangam)
YBhg. Datuk K. Selvarajah (Former Chief Executive of PERKESO)
YBhg. R.S. Datuk Mohan Shan (President, Malaysia Hindu Sangam)
YBrs. Dr. N. Iyngkaran (Director , Child Information, Learning and Development Centre)
Mr. Manokaran Mottain (Chief Economist of Alliance Bank Malaysia)
Ms. Jasmine Adaikalam (Managing Consultant of C Codes)
Mr. M.R. Chandran (Council Member of the Malaysian Estate Owners’ Association)
Mr. K. Murali (President, Kelab Bell Belia T amil, Malaysia)
Mr. Saravannan Sinnapan (President, Development of Human Resources for Rural Areas)
Mr. Raymond Gabriel (Executive Director of People Systems Consultancy)
Mr. A. Navamukundan (National Executive Secretary, National Union of Plantation Workers)
MIB ACKNOWLEDGEMENT LIST 167
<<<PAGE 170>>>
Mr. Thavaraspathy Kanagasabapathy (Advisor , Solara Group of Companies)
Mr. Supramani Shoniah (Deputy President & Religious Education Chairman of Hindu Dharma Maamandram)
Tuan Haji Abdul Ghani (Head of Block B, PPR Lembah Pantai)
Mr. Vijayan Krishnan (Superintendent of Prison, Prisons Department Malaysia)
Mr. G. K. Anandan (Manager , Special Implementation T ask Force)
Mr. Arun Kumar (Hindu Youth Organisation)
YBrs. Dr. Baskaran (Ministry of Health)
YBhg. Tan Sri Hari Narayanan (Emrail Sdn. Bhd.)
YBrs. Dr. J. Ravichandran R Jega Nathan (Ministry of Health)
Mr. Jagir Singh (Malaysian Gurdwara Council)
YBhg. Dato’ Professor Joseph Adaikalam (Binary University)
Ms. K. Karunajothi (Bank Negara Malaysia)
YBrs. Dr. Kalaiaarasu (Ministry of Health)
YBhg. Dato’ Dr. R. Kantha Rao (Paysys Sdn. Bhd.)
YBrs. Professor Dr. Krishnan Maniam (University of Malaya)
YBrs. Professor Dr. K. S. Nathan (National University of Malaysia)
Mr. Kumaran Subramaniam (Minnal FM)
YBrs. Dr. Kumaraguru Krishnasamy Pillay (Ministry of Health)
Mr. O. Thuraiveloo (Pertubuhan Perkembangan Intelek Malaysia)
Mr. Punniamurthy (University of Malaya)
Mr. Raghavan Annamalai (T amil Foundation)
Mr. Raja Singham (Brickfields Asia College)
Mr. Rajendran Perumal (Makkal Osai)
Mr. Ravindran Devagunam (International Strategic Cooperation Unit, Prime Minister’s Department)
Mr. S. P . Nathan (Educational, Welfare & Research Foundation Malaysia)
YBrs. Dr. Shanmugasiva (MySkills Foundation)
YBrs. Professor Dr. Shanthi Thambiah (University of Malaya)
YBrs. Professor Dr. Susela Devi (Unitar International University)
YBrs. Professor Dr. Suresh Govind (University of Malaya)
Mr. Suvailingam (T amil Bell Club)
YBhg. Dato’ Hj Thasleem Mohamed Ibrahim (Global T amil Muslim Federation)
Mr. Nitesh Malani (MIC Youth)
YBhg. Datin Santha Basil (MIC Wanita)
Mr. Yogendran Subramaniam (MIC Putera)
Mr. Areeprakash Pathma Nathan (MIC Putera)
Ms. Parahsakthi Sivasubramaniam (MIC Puteri)
Ms. Sri Rajeshwari Theetunni (MIC Puteri)
Ms. Shaliny Rajaram (Youth Parliament Member)
Mr. Kishva Ambigapathy (Youth Parliament Member)
Mr. Danesh Basil (Youth Parliament Member)
Mr. Arun Doraisamy (Maha Hindu Vision 2020 Movement)
Mr. Kumar Sathasivam (Malaysian Indian Business Venture) 
Mr. Palani Sathasivam (T emple of Fine Arts Malaysia) 
YBrs. Dr. Paranjothi (T emple of Fine Arts Malaysia)
YBhg. Datuk M. Periasamy (Former Fellow of JASA) 
YBrs. Dr. Mannar Mannan (Malaysian T amil Writers Association) 
Mr. Sivanesan Nadarajah (T emple of Fine Arts Malaysia)  
Mr. Senggutuan a/l Veeran (Indian Progressive Front)  
YBrs. Dr. Krishnan Ramasamy (University of Malaya)
YBrs. Dr. Ilangkumaran Sivanadhan (Sultan Idris Education University)
Ms. Uma Annamalai (Unit for Socio-Economic Development of Indian Community)
Mr. Revind Rajendran (Unit for Socio-Economic Development of Indian Community)
Mr. S. Mathava Rao (Secretariat for Empowerment of Indian Entrepreneurs) 
Mr. G. Viknesvaran (Secretariat for Empowerment of Indian Entrepreneurs)
YBrs. Dr. Raja Rajeswari Seetha Raman 
Mr. Sathiaseelan Iyadurai  
 
168 MIB ACKNOWLEDGEMENT LIST
<<<PAGE 171>>>

<<<PAGE 172>>>
